
URL  : http://www.olympusamerica.com/disg/cameras-digital/products/D-400Z/product_content.shtml
Title: 




      D-400 Zoom Features 1.3 Megapixel, 3X Optical Zoom, & Floppy Disk
                               Compatibility

D-400 Zoom - The Camera
Designed with camera styling and features, such as a 4 mode pop-up
intelligent flash, through-the-lens auto focus and 3X optical zoom (35-105mm
lens system), auto white balance with 5-step manual override, center weighted
and spot metering systems for auto exposure with +/-2 step manual EV control
in ½ step increments.

The D-400 Zoom includes professional level photographic, including four
levels of recording images (Standard Quality at 640 x 480 with standard
compression, High Quality at 1280 x 960 with standard compression, a Super
High Quality mode at 1280 x 960 with minimal compression, and uncompressed
.tiff file support).

The protective lens barrier slides open to simultaneously turn on the camera
and extend the zoom lens. This design protects and blocks the viewfinder
when closed, so there is no question when the camera is turned on.

The Digital Device
Designed to be a "digital" device with many high-tech features, including 2X
Digital Telephoto at any focal length, floppy disk compatibility to computer
systems, and reusable SmartMedia cards.

The D-400 Zoom, gives you the flexibility of using the 3X optical zoom lens
with or without the Digital Telephoto mode. The 2X Digital Telephoto can be
used at any focal length for a total of 6X capability. The built in 1.8-inch
LCD display automatically activates when choosing the digital Tele/Wide Mode
for through-the-lens composition. The macro capability allows the user to
get in as close as four inches.

D-400 Zoom - The Consumer Electronics Device
It is a consumer electronics device, with video connectivity to popular
consumer products and direct printing to the Olympus Personal Photo Printer
without the need of a computer. It features a conventional video out
connector for easy viewing of photos on a TV set and can be transferred to
videotape for easy viewing. The D-400 Zoom also prints directly to the
Olympus P-300 photo printer via its direct connect capabilities.

Speed
The D-400 Zoom incorporates high-speed D-RAM for internal operations
providing very fast shot recovery performance and burst mode shooting. This
mode enables users to shoot and capture up to 10 images in half second
intervals. Images are written through D-RAM (internal memory) and saved to
the removable media for later review.

New LCD
New features to the LCD include: the new Image Inspection mode for 3X
magnification of images on the LCD for inspecting small details, since the 8
and 16MB SmartMedia card can save hundreds of images in one card, the LCD now
allows up to 16 thumbnail images to be previewed at a time, making the camera
more efficient to use. To compare white balance and other settings, the user
may also choose to view 4 larger thumbnails at a time.

What's Included?
The D-400 Zoom includes a floppy disk adapter, 4 AA Alkaline batteries, a 8MB
Olympus brand panorama SmartMedia card, strap, serial cable for Mac and/or
PC, video connection cable for TV or VCR, Adobe PhotoDeluxe image
manipulation and creation software, Enroute Imaging QuickStitch panorama
stitching software, Olympus Camera Utility Software for downloading images
from the camera, and instruction manuals. All software supports both Windows
and Macintosh computer systems.

D-400 ZOOM FILMLESS DIGITAL CAMERA SPEC SHEET

   o 1.3 megapixel CCD, 1280 x 960 image resolution
   o Floppy disk compatible with included FlashPath floppy disk adapter
   o 3X optical zoom (35 - 105mm), 2X digital telephoto at any focal length
     yielding 6X total enlargement capabilities
   o F2.8 - 4.4 glass aspherical lens with TTL auto focus and macro mode
   o 2 position quick focus settings: 8 feet and infinity
   o Professional dioptric corrector for viewfinder sharpness
   o 8MB SmartMedia card included
   o Burst mode - up to 10 images in ½ second intervals
   o 4 mode pop-up intelligent flash
   o Through-the-lens white balance and 5 step manual white balance override
   o ½ - 1/1,000 sec mechanical shutter
   o Auto exposure with +/- 2 step EV control in ½ step increments
   o 3X image inspection mode to see all details of recorded image
   o 1, 4, 9, 16 up image review
   o Center weighted and spot metering systems
   o Exposure lock mode for perfectly exposed panorama stitches
   o Images saved as .exif file format (compressed .jpeg and uncompressed
     .tiff)
   o Direct connect to the Olympus Personal Photo Printer




