
 Phuk the World

 I've been playing this for ages, and the very helpful Mike Carter
(Author) has helped me along when I got stuck. Thanks!

 Phuk The World (PTW) is an adult graphical adventure, like Dizzy, or
Reality's Charlie Chimp! It was made in 1994, but Mike has uploaded it
after so many years of enjoyment from his friends.

 Because of the big level map, which PTW loads when you start playing
the game requires 2MB of RAM. This many cause problems for 2MB RAM A1200
users like me. If you boot via your hard drive, all your commodities
might eat up too much RAM, so it's best to play from a freshly booted
Workbench.

 This is the story ripped from the docs;

"Doctor Badds was working on his latest development in his sex lab. His
creation was nearing completion. It was a knob with a ming of its own ready
to save his friends and solve their personal problems. All that Doctor Badds
needed to do was connect the sack resistor to the harding tissue and the
creation was complete.

The knob shuddered under the thrusts of Dr. Badds penis as he forced himself
into the ignition start hole. Then the 'gruff' of the knobs engine groaned
out through the lab and the worlds first problem solving penis was born !!!

Badds stood above the penis and looked down, I command you to solve the
phucked up worlds of my friends! And within a small second the knob spoke
"Fuck you, my twatish creator!". Doctor Badds looked at the knob in
astonishment and then he commanded "Do what I fuckin' say you bastard!" The
knob bent slightly and replied "Yes my master, bater."

Doctor Badds carried the knob over to the staircase leading to the world
above. "Now remember you can't breath under water and you can only
re-generate yourself four times. Oh and good luck!, my little prick." said
Dr. Baddick sadly.

The knob bounced happily up and up the stair case to be greeted by a
blindingly bright world with a rainbow sky and walking turtles (!?)"

 It gives you an idea why it is an adult adventure. You play with the
joystick, but use the keyboard to pause, save and quit. While completing
your mission you will come across many strange people, and because of
the adult nature, I will not mention any of the characters night time
activities. Wanking, prostitution (Is that spelt right?).

 I have been puzzling over this since before Christmas, and I have only
just completed it. The puzzles aren't too taxing but you may get stuck
when you can't see what you need. I found that the computer and the
bucket of water were well hidden, but are essential to complete the
game.

 I particularly liked the congrats screen, when you complete the game, I
won't tell you anything, as it would spoil the surprise.

 The game itself, is written in AMOS, but it looks like Reality has been
at it, because the graphics look mighty similar to the ones on my CU
coverdisk of Reality.

 I really like this, it isn't as hard as the Dizzy series, but a good
puzzle while you are waiting for the next generation Dizzy to come out
on the Amiga.

Available from: Aminet
Archived name : ptw.lha

Graphics      : 76% - Too much like Reality (spit, spit)
Sound         : 81%
Playability   : 93%
Lastability   : 92%

Overall       : 89%

Reviewed by   : Lee Hesselden
