 As you prolly have noticed, there isn't much use of the provided SCSI cable
for your Blizzard603e+ and you prolly have searched for one which can be
used, but failed.

 You can always solder your own cable, the best solution is prolly to have
a circutboard between the two cables (the Phase5-SCSI and a Normal-SCSI).
The both cables are pin-compatible.
 I don't recommend this for people who hasn't soldered alto as you easely
will make a shortcut, but this is the cheapest solution if you have the 
equipment.

 You can go and buy two extra cables, thise should be avaible in any computer
store which sells SCSI equipment. First you have to look for a CENTRONIC50M to
MICRO-RIBBON50M. The CENTRONIC50M looks like the connector on the phase5 cable
to which connect external equipments, but a male. The MICRO-RIBBON50M looks
like the port on old printers, this too should be a male.
The second cable should be a normal internal SCSI cable with a MICRO-RIBBON50F,
you can either buy a such cable or do it your self.
 Connect the MICRO-RIBBON male to the MICRO-RIBBON female and the CENTRONIC male
to the cable which is attached to your Blizzard603eplus.
 The sad part with this is that it costs alot, I did buy the CEN->MICRO cable
and a MICRO-RIBBON female and this did cost me US$80, it had been US$100 if I
had bought the last cable instead of making it by my self.

 When you buy a Blizzard603eplus, think twice, it will cost you almost US$110
more than the one without and then plus US$100 to be able to use the SCSI on
the card, for that amount of money you will be able to buy Surfsquirrel-SCSI
and you will have money left to get out a weekend and party.


For Scandianvians and Danes, at ELFA/ELTEMA you will find thise as

 Kablage SCSI1 till SCSI2    25-565-61   398SEK
 Hylsa Micro-Ribbon 50-pol   43-660-43    61SEK

The already made cable has two Micro-Ribbon connectors, I don't have it's
name or number, but it costs 147SEK. The prices are without VAT, so it will
cost you more than the listed price.


 //Trizt