 FAQ for rec.collecting.phonecards

[http://home.netscape.com/home/bg/paper/blue_paper.gif]

FAQ FOR REC.COLLECTING.PHONECARDS

Frequently Asked Questions  (FAQ)

Last updated 7/21/95

 Contact Alan Cohen for more information:

Outline of this faq.

1a What is a prepaid phonecard?

1b Why collect phonecards?

1c How many collectors are there?

1d A Brief History of phonecards and phonecard collecting

2a Types of phonecards (varieties)

2b Why are some cards more expensive to use than others

2c What is an activation fee?

2d What does recharging mean?

2e What is the difference between units, minutes and dollars?

2f Can I call anywhere in the world with my card?

2g Why does my card have an expiration date?

2h What happens if the phone company goes out of business?

2i What is a PIN?

3. Used vs. Mint

4a Who can produce phonecards?

4b List of companies that produce phonecards in the U.S. and Canada

4c List of companies that produce phonecards outside of the U.S. and Canada

4d MLM (multi-level marketing) - What is it?

5a Purpose of this newsgroup - Suggested Guidelines

5b Discussion and Information

5c Trading guidelines

5d Buying/Selling guidelines

5e Auction Guidelines

5f Options for when a deal goes bad

6. Storing and Displaying Phonecards

7. Magazines, Clubs, and Newsletters dealing with phonecards

8. Other On-Line services and mailing lists for phonecards

9. WWW Home Pages for Phonecards

1a What is a Prepaid Phonecard?

A prepaid phonecard is a calling card that can be used to make long distance or
local telephone call. Unlike charge calling cards which are billed to a
telephone account, these cards are usually purchased with a set amount of
calling time on them. When the time on the card is depleted, the user can
purchase a new card. The used card then becomes a collectible. Rates for using
prepaid phonecards is often cheaper than traditional charge calling cards, as
the charge cards often impose an access fee in addition to phone rates. Prepaid
cards are also considerably less expensive than collect calling. For example, a
1 minute call using an MCI charge calling card might cost over $1.00, while
using a prepaid phonecard will usually run between 25 and 60 cents, depending on
the card and its carrier.

1b Why collect phonecards?

It's been said that phonecards are a hybrid of coin, stamp and trading card
collecting. You have the currency value of coins and stamps, the thematic and
used/new collecting aspects of stamps, and the similarities in size and most
recently themes for trading cards. Phonecards seem to be something that can be
collected quite easily. It is possible to gather a collection of expensive and
hard to find cards, proofs, errors, etc. It is also possible to collect just by
using cards, and trading them. You can spend as much or little as you want to
collect phonecards, and this is what makes phonecard collecting such a popular
worldwide hobby.

1c How many collectors are there?

Worldwide, it is safe to say the number is in the millions. It's been estimated
that there are a million collectors alone in Japan. The hobby is still small in
the U.S., but it is growing rapidly. Phonecards are also becoming easier to
find, from promotional giveaways to cards being sold in markets and retail
stores.

1d A Brief History of phonecards and phonecard collecting

The modern phonecard has its roots in Italy in 1976. Phonecards were introduced
as a way of reducing theft from public pay phones. The phenomena spread to the
rest of the world. (Except the U.S., where we were using charge calling cards
and collect calls) Although trial cards were in the U.S. as early as the mid
1980's, it was not until the 1990's that  collectors would start knowing what
phonecards were. Companies like AT&T (Yes, they make prepaid cards too!), NYNEX
and Amerivox were some of the early pioneers in the U.S. phonecard
industry.(This section needs to be expanded, any volunteers???)

2a Types of phonecards (varieties)

There are four major types of telecards - remote memory cards, magnetic,
optical, and electronic.

Remote memory cards are used by the majority of U.S. telephone companies.  The
time is not stored on the card itself, but rather in a central computer which is
accessed by the cardholder.  Using a toll-free number appearing on the card, the
user calls the central computer and enters a unique identification number (often
referred to as a PIN - personal identification number).  Remote memory cards are
different than the other types of cards as they do not require any physical
contact with the telephone.  Many of  these cards are renewable and can be
"recharged" with additional time.

Magnetic cards have a built-in memory of the telephone time remaining on the
card stored in a magnetic stripe (or stripes) appearing on the card (similar in
concept to the magnetic stripes appearing on bank credit cards).  The card is
inserted into the telephone which then reads the amount of time available on the
card and reduces this amount as the phone call progresses.  Some magnetic cards
have a scale along which holes are punched by the telephone at the end of each
call to give the holder an indication of the time remaining.

Optical cards have the telephone time remaining on the card stored in patterns
in a foil strip on the card.  When the card is inserted into the telephone, an
infra-red beam is reflected off of the patterns, telling the electronics inside
the telephone the amount of time available.  As the time is used, the patterns
are destroyed, reducing the remaining time available.  Some optical cards have a
white strip along which black marks are placed by the telephone at the end of
each call, again to provide a measure of the time remaining on the card.

Electronic cards actually have a silicon chip embedded in the card.  This chip
stores the amount of time remaining on the card. The chip is connected to a set
of contacts appearing on the card surface.  When inserted into the telephone,
these contacts connect with the electronics of the telephone, thereby allowing
it to obtain a reading of the time available.

2b Why are some cards more expensive to use than others

Rates can vary on U.S. prepaid phonecards, so it is a good idea to check out
different companies. On the high end, which usually runs around 60 cents per
minute are the more established companies like Sprint, MCI and AT&T. They seem
to believe that name recognition will get people to purchase their cards to use.
Companies that charge between 40 and 50 cents per minute tends to be RBOC's
(Regional Bell Operating Companies, like Pacific Bell, Bell South, NYNEX, etc.)
and entertainment or novelty cards. There are then companies that sell time for
less. For example, Liberty charges 33 cents per minute. Some ACMI cards have
rates as low as 25 cents per minute. It's a good idea to check around and see
what card is best for you. If you are not going to use the card and keep it new,
rates won't matter as much. If you use the card, you may be influenced by card
design and just pay more for phone time (See section 3, Used vs. New)

2c What is an activation fee?

Some companies charge something called an activation fee when you use a card. A
company notorious for doing this is Amerivox. Although the card may say $21 on
it, there is most likely only $10 worth of calling time on it. In Amerivox's
case, half of the fee goes to the director responsible for selling the card, and
half to the Company. This cost can be gotten back through something called the
Savmor program - You need to have your card automatically renewed via credit
card. Your first $10 is free.

2d What does recharging mean?

Recharging is placing more calling time on a phonecard, usually done by calling
an 800 number and using a major credit card. It only affects remote access
cards, as once a magnetic or laser card is used up, it can not be recharged.
Cards can either be permanently attached to a credit card and automatically
renew (See previous section) or you can recharge a card for as much as you want
as a one time transaction. If you recharge a card this way, and decide not to
recharge again, there will be no permanent attachment to your credit card.

2e What is the difference between units, minutes and dollars?

This is just a difference in how a company notes how much calling you can do
with a card. If it is listed in units, 1 unit usually stands for 1 minute of
domestic calling. International calls may take 2-5 units per minute. If the card
is listed in minutes, this will tell you how many minutes you have for domestic
calls. (most of these cards will be for domestic calls only) If the card is in
dollars, you need to find out how much it cost per minute to call domestically
and internationally.

2f Can I call anywhere in the world with my card?

This depends on the card. If you are unsure, call the 800 number often printed
on the card to find out. Also, ask when purchasing. There are even some cards
that will work outside of the U.S.

2g Why does my card have an expiration date?

 Businesses have to look attractive to investors and stock-holders and if they
issued their cards with no expiration date these cards would remain on their
balance sheet as a huge liability forever.  A good company should re-activate
your card if you call their customer service department and ask

2h What happens if the phone company goes out of business?

This has happened. Unfortunately, it is very easy to produce cards in the U.S.
In many other countries, only cards produced by the government or a phone
company are allowed. In the U.S., all you need to do is buy phone time for
someone and print up cards. Two companies of note that have ceased business are
Globalcom 2000 and Telemax. When this happens, the PIN (Personal Identification
Number, see section 2i) is deactivated and the card can no longer be used to
make calls. Although this has not influenced the collectable value of the card,
if you purchased it to make calls you are out of luck. Since prepaid phonecards
are often of denominations under $20, the people who really lose out are the
dealers, not the collectors or users.

2i What is a PIN?

A PIN is a personal identification number. It seems impossible to function in
the modern world without having used a PIN. It is just a code, similar to an ATM
code to withdraw cash from an automatic teller. Traditional charge calling cards
also use PINs.

3. Used vs. Mint

To many collectors outside of the U.S., this section probably seems strange.
After all, phonecards are utility items that are meant to be purchased, used,
and then collected. In the U.S., we still haven't gotten the hang of the using
part. Thus, most of the phonecards produced here seem to go to collectors who
keep them mint. If you are a collector, and enjoy what the phonecards look like
and do not care about "investment value" then by all means go use the cards! I
wouldn't recommend buying an expensive card and using it, but we need more
people to purchase cards at face value and use them. In Europe and Asia, most
people collect used cards. It is less expensive, and in some cases, free.
(Especially if you have non-collector friends giving you their used cards, or if
you find used cards left behind around the phone booths) In this respect,
phonecards are similar to stamps. People collect them used and peel them off
letters. People also collect mint and go down to the post office and purchase
plate blocks. Collect how you want to collect, not how you think you should.

4a Who can produce phonecards?

This will depend. In the U.S., Even you can produce phonecards! (Whether they
will be valuable is another question!) In other countries, this is often limited
to official agencies.

4b List of companies that produce phonecards in the U.S. and Canada

(ANY Volunteers? - If not, this will take some time to compile!)

4c List of companies that produce phonecards outside of the U.S. and Canada

Philippines Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) Eastern Telecoms
Digitel (ANY Volunteers? - If not, this will take some time to compile!)

4d MLM (multi-level marketing) - What is it?

(ANY Volunteers? - If not, I will fill in later)

5a Purpose of this newsgroup - Suggested Guidelines

This newsgroup is designed to promote information worldwide about prepaid
phonecards. Additionally, it is designed to be a marketplace group for buying,
selling and trading phonecards. The charter specifically states that:

Rec.collecting.phonecards newsgroup will be open to discussion of all aspects of
prepaid phonecard collecting, The scope of the discussion will include
marketplace posts, trading posts, and information posts.Approximately 180
countries now issue prepaid phonecards, which are also known as telecards or
debit calling cards, and the proposed newsgroup will cover both United States
and International phonecards. Types of phonecards include remote memory access,
chip, magnetic strip, laser stripe and stored memory.

This means that this group is dedicated specifically dedicated to phonecards.
Chain Letters, Make Money Fast Schemes, Spamming non-relevant topics and obscene
pornographic advertisements will be reported immediately to the person's
internet provider. In many cases, account are canceled because of this. If you
are not talking about phonecards, stay away! For other types of collectibles,
there are appropriate groups. Credit cards and other types of debit cards belong
in rec.collecting - Sports cards have their own hierarchies as well. Finally,
although the charter does not prohibit MLM solicitations, be prepared to defend
your company should you solicit here.

5b Discussion and Information

This newsgroup is a great forum for people to discuss different aspects of
phonecard collecting. Additionally, it is a great resource for information on
different promotions and offers available. If you know of a phonecard promotion
in your area, please feel free to post a message letting everyone know!

5c Trading guidelines

The best way to trade is to post a message and let people know that you are
interested in trading (Try to be specific about what types of cards you have, or
at least from which country) Trading is a great way to increase your collection,
and there are many willing traders worldwide.

5d Buying/Selling guidelines

Buying

Use common sense! When purchasing anything that is not in person, the same rules
should apply.

1) Ask questions about the product. Make sure that you are buying what you think
you are, and that the seller knows what the product is.

2) Find out about the dealer's policy on replacing damaged, lost, or wrong
items. It is the seller's responsibility to get your merchandise to you in the
condition agreed upon. Hint:" If the dealer will not take an item back or
replace if damaged or lost, find another dealer! See the listing in 5g for
reputable dealers.

3) Send out payment within a couple of days. There is nothing more annoying for
a dealer to hold a card for someone, have others make an offer on it, and then
the buyer weasel out of a deal. If you make a deal, honor it! If you do not, you
will most likely be chastised, and you may find it difficult to make deals in
the future.

4) Do not send cash in the mail. If there is no paper trail, there is no proof
that you sent payment. Just as it is the seller's responsibility to get the
merchandise to you in satisfactory condition, it is your responsibility to get
payment to the dealer. If you send cash, and it gets lost, it is NOT the
seller's fault or problem, but yours!

5) Ask for a referral. If you've never dealt with someone before, it is okay to
post asking for a reference from someone that has dealt with that person

6) Start small. Don't purchase a large amount from someone you have never seen
in the newsgroup. If a dealer treats you well with a small order, they usually
will do so with larger ones too!

Selling

1) It is the Seller's RESPONSIBILITY AND OBLIGATION to get the merchandise to
the customer. If the order gets lost in the mail, it is the seller's
responsibility to replace or refund. To avoid these problems, be sure to insure
orders you feel are too big to take a loss. Also consider shipping via UPS -
They automatically cover up to $100.

2) Provide as much information as possible about the card. If you say something
like NYNEX card for sale, $10, this post does not tell us anything! If possible,
give the company, design, mintage, etc. If you do not know all of this, how
about a description of the card?

3) Multiple posting. It is seen as rude to post many consecutive ads with one
item to sell. This will in the long run lose you customers. Chances are you will
end up on what is called a kill file. This allows potential customers to cancel
articles that are posted from you. Try to combine items for sale in one message.

4) Posting the same message over and over again is another way to end up on a
killfile or just be ignored. If you have not sold a card after advertising for 2
weeks straight, you probably will not sell it.

5e Auction Guidelines

Auctions are a good way for a buyer of picking up cards inexpensively, as well
as a good way for a seller to move some stock. Here are some guidelines:

Use the appropriate subject headers and then post by lots what you want to
auction.  Make sure you state a minimum bid (or if you are having a "no minimum
bid" auction).  Be sure to list the current bid and the current bidder.  Also a
good idea is to list the Low and/or hi prices from a price guide (specify the
guide).

BIDDERS ON AN AUCTION:  The auctioneer will decide how to list your name next to
the current bid.  However, let the auctioneer know if you would like it a
certain way.  Auctions may be run different, however, the guide lines listed
below are usually apply to most auctions.

AUCTION GUIDELINES:

1)  Minimum bids/raises are specified by the auctioneer. However, if you state
no minimum bid, be prepared to accept a bid of $1 - AND HONOR IT - Even for your
1992 NYNEX $1 Democratic Convention card!.

2) Do not post an auction update more than once a day!!!!.  It is recommended
you use the same parent-post for your updates (follow up the original article
for your UPDATE posts).  There are different ways to save your original post. 
If you are unsure how to do this, ask someone that is familiar with your system
to help you out.  For some of your lots, only a few people may be interested (or
for your entire auction).  If so, it may be easier to update by e-mail and then
post an updated auction list every 3 days or so.  This cuts down on net traffic.

3)  Shipping cost may be; buyer pays, seller pays  or split.  This is specified
by the auctioneer.

4)  It is assumed that all items are in Unused / Mint condition.  It is also
assumed that if the buyer is unsatisfied with the cards FOR ANY REASON, he/she
may notify the seller, and the seller must refund/replace the items.  A good
time limit for deals is 3 days AFTER receiving the card(s).  This is sufficient
time to examine the card and send notification of your intentions/expectations.

5)  If the item(s) get lost in the mail, it is up to the seller to rectify the
situation (replace/refund).  If the money gets lost in the mail, it is up to the
buyer to rectify the situation (return/repay).

For most traffic on this newsgroup, these guidelines are good models for your
auction.  However, you can specialize your rules as much as you feel necessary.

There will be times when bidders will pull their offer.  This is a pain, and
doesn't happen too frequently, but it is annoying enough to mention.

5f Options for when a deal goes bad

What happens when someone pulls a bid from my auction or withdraws an offer to
buy cards from me?

Sellers/Auctioneers:  It does happen.  A lot of the time there is no avoiding
it.  It happens for different reasons; personal emergencies, changed mind, found
a better deal, etc.  There is an argument about legal and binding contracts. 
However, we don't want to turn the group into an official business place.  It is
supposed to be "casual" buying and selling.  As a Seller/Auctioneer, you just
have to take it in stride and try to re-auction/re-sell.  A responsibility is
also placed upon you to not pull the item from sale.  An example of this may be
when a new Price Guide comes out and the price went up.  After all, if the price
went down, you wouldn't want the buyer to pull out.

Bidders:  If you bid on something, please make sure that you want the item you
bid on.  There is something called honor, and if you pull or stall because you
are waiting to see if you can get a better deal, then be prepared to have your
name passed around in a negative manner.  Remember, it is very frustrating to a
auctioneer/seller for someone to pull out of a deal. someone pull out from under
him/her.  Most netters realize that personal emergencies come up.  However, a
polite note and a possible solution goes a long way to rectifying a bad
situation.  Remember, YOUR NAME IS YOUR WORD.  Use it wisely.

If the person does not send the item you have purchased, and a check is cashed,
the following steps can be taken:

1) Try e-mailing them. Perhaps they are out of town or just slow. Do not post a
message saying "John Doe is a crook and took my money." This is especially true
if you have not tried to contact them or given an appropriate amount of time.
(Remember, if writing a check, expect for the dealer to wait for it to clear!)
If you do this, you will look like an idiot.

2) If you get no response or a response that says I sent it out, too bad, then
you can go further. You can post to the newsgroup what went down. A lot of times
the negative publicity will get the person to change their mind and replace or
refund. You can also write to their system administrator (If you do not know
how, ask!) and let them know what went down.

3) Postal authorities. If someone took your money and did not deliver, it is a
Felony. Fill out a report with your local post office, some postal investigator
would love to nab the crook!

6. Storing and Displaying Phonecards

Storage methods range from binder pages to stackable drawers which hold the
cards in individual card-sized sleeves.  The method you choose to store cards
will depend upon your desire to display your cards and your space requirements. 
Binders with pocketed pages provide an easy means of showing your collection to
others, however it will involve greater cost and space requirements than a
simple file-drawer type box with cards stored in sleeves.

Care should be taken when selecting storage materials as some sleeves and pages
may contain substances that could damage your cards.  As with most things, when
purchasing storage materials you usually get what you pay for, with inexpensive
storage methods usually offering the least in quality.

7. Magazines, Clubs, and Newsletters dealing with phonecards

The primary reference book for North American Phonecards is called  "Telephone
Cards of the World-Part 2: North America, Caribbean, and Atlantic."  The authors
are W. Hiscocks and C. Garibaldi. It is soft cover, and a must have for any
collector of North American phonecards. The second edition will be released
shortly, look for ads in this section to purchase it. I have even heard that
some of the new books will be autographed by the authors and include a 5 minute
phonecard!

Magazines

[http://www.moneycard.com] Moneycard Collector (800-264-9884) Annual cost of
under $20, One of the best phonecard magazines, complete with priceguide and
informative articles. The publisher, Murray Church, is on the internet.
Moneycard Also has a Homepage (See Section 9)

International Telephone Cards (800-683-0036).

Telecard Times (212) 353-1934

Telecard World (800) 825-0061

Collector's Advantage

Phonecard Collector (Quarterly Supplement to Sports Collector's Digest)

PCM Report (Phone Card Monthly) (908) 972-9122

Premier Telecard Magazine   (805) 547-8500 ($60.00 per year)

Telcolle (In Japanese, Lots of Pictures) Fax Number: (03) 746-2306

(IF YOU KNOW ANY MORE, PLEASE LET ME KNOW!)

Clubs

NYNEX Collector's Club - $15 Annual Dues (Worth it!) (800) 70-NYNEX

(DO YOU HAVE A CLUB? IF SO, LET ME KNOW!)

Newsletters

(DO YOU HAVE A NEWSLETTER - IF SO, LET ME KNOW!)

8. Other On-Line services and mailing lists for phonecards

On-Line Services:

[http://www.compuserve.com] CompuServe

The Phone and Money Card Section in the Collectibles forum is the most active of
its type for phonecard collecting. In addition to posting messages, the section
has a library and weekly live conference. If you are a serious phonecard
collector, CompuServe is the place to be!

[http://www.aol.com] America On-Line

In the Other Collectibles Section of the Exchange is a Telephone Card section.
Although not as active as CompuServe, if you have AOL, check out this section!

9. WWW Home Pages for Phonecards

The newest feature of the internet is the web. It is a combination of text and
graphics. Currently, there are many "home pages" dedicated to collecting. Here
is a list of a few that were provided to us. If you have a homepage to add,
please e-mail ahc3@cornell.edu with the URL

[http://ocf.berkeley.edu/~rhillen/ctc.html]
http://ocf.berkeley.edu/~rhillen/ctc.html

[http://www.funet.fi/index/phonecard/] http://www.funet.fi/index/phonecard/

	 [http://ee.wpi.edu/~zakharia/cards.html 	]
http://ee.wpi.edu/~zakharia/cards.html

[http://www.hmt.com	] http://www.hmt.com

		 [http://www.akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo]
http://www.akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo

[http://www.funet.fi/pub/doc/telecom/	] http://www.funet.fi/pub/doc/telecom/

	 [http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/computing/users/andy/ ]
http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/computing/users/andy/

There are new sights popping up every day. Most sights are linked to one
another, so try accessing one. You may find yourself looking for hours! If you
have internet service, you may already have WWW access. Check with the staff of
your internet connection for more information on how to access the Web

 Major Contributors to the FAQ

Alan Cohen

Jim Silva

Jim Moran

Bob Gajarsky (And others from rec.collecting.cards* - Part of the buyer/seller
responsibility section was taken from that faq)

      < Converted by HTMLess v3.0 by Troglobyte - Darkness. Only Amiga... >