                       Nemesis1's Modules List V0.9ß

Greetings!

This is just a quick note to tell you that these lists are not quite
finished yet, hence the v0.9ß tag.  I am currently trying to finish sorting
out the last unsorted disks (M78-M90), so that the list itself will be
complete.  As you can see in this archive, the files are generally of two
sorts, sorted list and a disk/hd dir list.  It should be easy to figure out
how this works, so I won't go into such details.  But please note that this
is not the final version of the list so it could change in the future.  But
it will probably be in this mould.  The main reason why I'm releasing this
is because I need some info regarding unknown composers, and also because
I'm looking for someone to swap mods with, preferably by mail.

All mods in the lists (except for the oldies list (M00-M90)) are XPK NUKEd.
The reason why I use that packer is simple:  FAST and good ratio's (I know
there are better packers, but those ain't as fast..  and I've only 68000 :(
Also some of the mods are OptiMod-ed (most on the working list).

Anyway, if you want to swap mods, got composer info's for me, or just want
to get into contact, write to me at this address:

			Agust Arni Jonsson
			Haaleitisbraut 36, 2.h.t.v
			IS-108 Reykjavik
			ICELAND

Thank you for your time.


Quick Greetings! These go to:

KingPin / Spaceballs : This is your fault! You are the main reason I
finally got around and played around with this madness !! Your mods-list
came also in handy when doing this lunacy! Thanx anyway :) (Now send me
your updated list, you lazy git ! :-)

Shocker / Accession :  Thanks for the 100+ mods you sent me in January -
February, lots of great stuff there.

Christian Marz : We don't know each other, in fact I've never corresponded
with him, but his (IN-Accurate !!) Complete Modules List (v7.1) was an
invaluable aid in compiling my list!  Million thanks !!!

MadMax1 : For everything throughout all the years we've known each other
(through thick and thin), for your support at various hard times in my
life, for that AR_III thingy :) Sometimes you can be a real pain in the
head (you bullshit too much....) but anyways: THANKS!

And to my other friends (that have been pestering me a LOT last days ;) :
Ágúst, Magnús, Halldór, Andri. Thanks for all. I may be crazy doing this,
but I'm nuts anyway (and have allways been), but at least that's in a
cheery sorta way :D
