Instead of into...
 
 Once upon a time my old Amiga 1200 by Escom has refused to read disks.
First, I've cleaned diskdrive, but it's changed nothing. So, I started to
look for a new drive. I managed to buy two PC's FDD for a very reasonable
price. Having two drives I decided to fit it in my tower using one cable
connected to internal FDD controler.

 And problems started to arise...

 "It's easy, take a look at Aminet" - I thought. So I did and found nothing
interesting.  My problem seemed to be more complicated than known solutions.

 So, let's go to work...

 After reading some text about it, I decided to build my own version of
interface, which could:
- handle two drives with one cable connected to internal controler;
- allow system to detect automatically two drives as DF0: and DF1:;
- allow both drives to generate correct _RDY signal.


Note 1.
 As I told, I wanted both drives in my tower connected by internal controler
(it's more elegant :). There was one problem - where to find some signals
missing in that case (Sel.1, MTRx, Reset). It turned out that all needed
signals are on U8 - VIA 8520 chip and 44 pins PLCC socket did the job.
I soldered the support with small plate to harden it (as it is possible
to brake socket when fitting it on chip; also it helps the socket
to stay on chip). For scheme of connection - see pic.  1A.

Note 2 and 3
 First, for Escom (and newer) main boards' owners - you have PC drives
mounted in your Amiga. To make them working correctly pin 2 is connected
with 34 (signal _CHNG). You have to change that according pic. 1B and
connect pin 34 of internal controler with pin 1 of external. It allows
drive to generate _RDY signal (needed for correct drive detection at start)
and to read NDOS disks. It also gives you compatibility with previous
drives.
 Second, I have to explain problem with _RDY signal.  It's little more
complicated.

 Case 1.
 At start of computer:  with high state of _MTRx low state at line _SEL.x
arrives; drive replies (if mounted) with low state of _RDY signal.

 Case 2.
 When loading/saving with low state of _SEL.x AND of _MTRx signal drive
replies with _RDY ready signal after 500ms.

 Described solution guarantee reply _RDY in both cases for both drives.
Because of simplification of system I treated period between low state of
_MTRx and of _SEL.x signals as a short.

Instead of end...

 If you are average soldering iron user you should find this system easy to
make.  That's why I didn't described output pins. You have to co-ordinate
finished system but setting resistance of RP for 500 ms delay. You can do
it by using software from included archive. I'm not the author of that
package, but I decided to include it to make your life easier.

And I think it's all.

P.S. I It's obvious that, although the system is simple, it has to be done
       very carefully as you can easy DESTROY your Amiga!
P.S. II A lot of greetings for all soldering iron warriors spending their
        time looking for solutions of Amiga problems.
P.S. III Greetings for Christian Sauer, author of A1200FDfix package - I
         used his idea of generating delay for _RDY signal.
P.S. IV  English version write:
     Kamil Niescioruk (kniescio@biotop.umcs.lublin.pl)     Mariusz Danilewicz (mandi@interia.pl)     Thanx !

     -----------------
     !!!!!! END !!!!!!
     -----------------
        Marian Guc
     mguc@poczta.wp.pl
