 Syncdoubler II description                      05.09.98
 
 
 In 1996 I changed my multisync monitor to a VGA monitor. I thought
 this is no problem because I didn't use the PAL Hires mode.
 
 But:
 
 - many programs open Hires screens without a question 
 - Hires screen if errors in startup sequence
 - bootmenu in Hires
 - etc.
 
 Hires screen on a VGA monitor? This won't work!
 
 Where's the difference between a Hires mode and a VGA mode ? 
 In Hires one line on screen is 64 us (micro seconds) long, the
 horizontal frequenzy is (64 us)^-1 = 15625 Hz.

 VGA Monitors begins with the double frequency, 31250 Hz, one
 VGA line is 32 us long or shorter.

 
 My idea was to add one horizonal sync every Hires line. This should be 
 enough for the monitor to sync correctly.

 Because the complete Hires line is still 64 us long and the time between
 two syncs is 32 us, the line is wrapped in two lines on the monitor.
 
  -->  Kuddelmuddel on the screen !
 
 So I had to blank every second line on the monitor for a correct
 picture.

 
 My first syncdoubler was a quick test for my idea, and it worked. I used
 a dual retriggerable monostable multivibrator called 74HC123 for creating
 the second necessary sync. The delay was controlled by a RC combination, I
 have to say this was really no optimum.
 Every second line was muted by shortening the RGB lines with 3
 transistors, not gentleman like, but it works and it was quick and cheap.
 
 This worked but was not really usable, so I had to create a new
 Syncdoubler, the Syncdoubler II.
 
 
 The Syncdoubler II uses two logic components, one quad NAND and a PIC
 microcontroller.
 The microcontroller is clocked by the c1 clock from the amiga
 (about 3,54 MHz), the timing of the hsync is controlled by the PIC
 software. This syncdoubler allows to scroll through the amiga screen in
 a resolution of 16 steps through two push buttons. The RGB signal is muted
 through the PIC. (have a look on the schematic, If you don't like this
 method use a RGB switch !)
 
 The syncdoubler II detects automatic the screen mode and doubles the sync
 if Hires and put the amiga sync through if no Hires.
 
 Because the c1 clock is devided through 4 in the PIC and this is no
 Because the c1 clock is devided by 4 in the PIC and this is no
 integer multiple from the horizontal frequency I had to use a special
 synchronisation between the PIC and the amiga, this is done by the NAND.
 
 Have a look on the source. The source is written for the 16C84, you can
 assemble, simulate, emulate and program it with our Amiga PIC tools
 available on my Homepage:
 
   http://linux.rz.fh-hannover.de/~duesterb

 or on AmiNet:
 
   search for APIC.
 
 
 The syncdoubler is not a scandoubler ! a scandoubler buffers the video
 in a special RAM, the syncdoubler doubles only the syncs !
 
 If you could not imagine how the result looks like have a look on the
 three screenshots from my monitor made with a video camera.
 
 Good luck,


Dirk


