	
		Reply to Kei/Carnage 
		-------------------
		 by Wade/Eltech
		 --------------

Ok first of all I give NFA permission to use this article in The Word. I
say that because as most of us know NFA are the dirtiest RIPPERS on the
Amiga and majority of these articles were NOT sent to them but were ripped
off BBS`s etc. 

Ok then for me to contribute to The Word at will it must be a bad sign!
Though it seems so degrading for me I want to get my opinions out to the same 
audience Kei broadcast his views to. If Kei you had written the text in RAW 
or any other decent mag I may have been impressed, but in typical Carnage 
style your only outlet is The Word or other lame means.. Never mind I`ll sink 
to your level so that you can read it. It seems pointless writing my article 
in say Rom, Raw etc as I know you have no interest in the real scene. 

Ok then let`s begin defending myself and my FRIENDS..

Kei accuses Wilsh of being a protester against friendship. HAHA yeh, and I
suppose Friendly Kei is a major promoter of friendship.. hehe. Yeh is
that why the scene is seen as a profitable source for you, is that why you
drop contacts because they don`t send you games, they only send scene
stuff. I suppose your partners in the promotion of friendship NFA know the
score with their selling of warez to begginers. YEH RITE!!!!!

If the scene was all about friendship you wouldn`t use their work to make
profit for yourself. Real friendly that! Also what about the sceners who
work commercially, your quick enough to destroy all their chances of making
profit, by pirating and swapping their hard work.

Also you claim that you have joined NFA to form an alliance of friendship
and make the UK a more friendly place. Well I suggest you read Freak/NFA`s
opinions on racism. How can anyone who is Pro racism be encouraging
friendliness. FUCK OFF! There is no place for racism in the scene, or
anywhere else. 

Now I always have claimed to be a friendly member of the scene, I`ve never
purposly stole disks, I`ve dropped VERY few contacts, I chose the scene
over money all the time. Begginers who write always get a friendly responce
from me whether I can swap with em or not. 

The scene isn`t JUST about friendship though. There is a productive side of 
things y`know. Yeh you gain friends along the way and believe me I have 
gained some real good friends! 

The scene to me is about expressing yourself in a non violent, productive 
way. In the beggining it was done through cracking, but then the scene 
really developed. Now the scene is about promoting the Amiga, about proving 
who`s number 1. The competition element of the scene is what has made it 
what it is today. Now if the scene was about releasing Amos or CLI based
stuff everyone with an Amiga could be in the Euro Charts! There is nothing
cool or talented about shoving a few porno pics on disk and calling em a
Carnage release. If everyone did that ther`d be no scene.

If you ask any REAL scener they will tell you the best days of the UK Scene 
were when Anarchy were around.. now when have Anarchy released anything in 
Amos, Ripped off other peoples stuff, claimed to be the ultimate friends. 
Never! Now Eltech or any of the current groups can`t come anywhere near 
Anarchy`s quality, but at least we are heading that way rather than creating 
our own interpretation of the scene and forcing it upon everyone. 

Yeh Wilsh would like to enter the EuroCharts, the same here, you find that
amusing? Ask any real scener and they`ll tell you the same. To be a real 
scener you need to contribute to the scene. To contribute to the scene you 
need talent or at least decent ideas of your OWN! Yeh Wilsh released Fusion 
Tools, but that`s been a LONG time ago, ooops I forgot it`s new to you 
Carnage guys. Yeh I forgot that 1-2 YEAR old warez is hot swapping material 
for you guys. Yeh well he`s out of that stage now, how long have Carnage 
been on the scene 2-3 years?? And still not out of that stage! What 
proggression have you made? 

It`s not anti friendship we are promoting, it`s enthusiasm. We don`t wanna
sit back and watch the UK scene become a place to exchange Games, code in
Amos or RIP other people`s hard work. It will sink the Amiga if all the
games are being pirated and all the public has to see is Amos stuff which
doesn`t even touch the surface of the Amiga`s capabilities. 

Hehe yeh Kei buy a PC and sod off, but as most people will know the PC and
friendship don`t mix. Just try it and see what happens to you there.
Besides someone with you`re Command line skills and ripping of gfx will
surely make it big on the PC. After all the PC scene is all about corner
cutting and taking the credit. Yeh go for it and take the rest of Carnage
with ya. 

Yeh I was at the Symposium, I was the one who talked to nearly everyone in
the building, yet according to you I`m the unfriendly one. It wasn`t me
that sat at the Amiga all day copying porn pics for one another, I was out
there mixing with all my scene friends. Also I noticed there was no scene
contribution from you? The Symposium invite also clearly stated that this
would be a LEGAL party, yet you release and spread Phreaking Only, swap
illegal porn pics and I`m even sure the pirated game was thrown in for good
measure. Now this is the sort of thing that kills the scene. You say you
contribute more to the scene than Wilsh? Well what have you contributed?
Other people`s work doesn`t count... erm.. Oh dear that rules out all your
slideshows and Text disks... so I guess you`ve not contributed to the
scene.

Talking of the digital Symposium Dooba was the ONLY member of Carnage to
release something into any of the competitions, yet you guys didn`t even
acknowledge his module, you call yaself friends yet you couldn`t even be 
bothered to listen to a members work. No wonder Dooba decided to leave.

As for the size of Carnage. Is this the ONLY thing Carnage has going for
it? You don`t need over 20 members to make a group good. Look at Bomb,
Andromeda, Lemon. they don`t have 100`s of members they probably don`t even
have 20 yet they rule the scene. As for Carnage never dying well thats
probably because your making to much money to kill off the group eh. 

If you intend never to give up at least try doing something for the scene
instead of claiming to be a scener and sitting at ya Ami playing games all
day. Yeh I know picking up Coding, Gfx and music isn`t easy, but ya have to
start somewhere. If you really care about the scene you`ll help it and not
sell it out. I know you and NFA have deals with PD libraries, if you cared
about the scene you`d be doing what you do for pleasure and to help the 
scene and not for money. 

NFA are the worst for the profit making schemes. The cheek of it! You wish
PD libraries to PAY YOU for your Bodyshop series and The Word!!! HUH it`s
not even your work! The words articles and often Music and gfx are ripped
without permission from other sceners. It`s like me adding a bootblock to
Grapevine and telling PD libraries to send their subscription fees to ME!

If NFA reject this article as it speaks badly about em, then thats fair
enough, but if you are so confident about yourselves then you won`t care
about what I`ve said. Let the people decide. 

Look now, I don`t have plans to destroy Carnage and destroy your
friendship, that isn`t why I got involved in all this. My whole point
behind it is so that you react with decent productions, yeh man make me eat
my words.. come on! The UK scene just needs more enthusiasm. To many
slackers! Put ya joysticks to one side and do something towards the scene.

In all respects to Kei I don`t know him and anything I`ve said here
directed at Carnage or NFA was not directed as a personal insult, but as a
criticism of their scene attitude. For all I know you could be missionaries
saving the starving in the 3rd world, but it doesn`t make you a good scener. 

If anyone has opinions on this subject and wishes to give views to me
personally please email me at:

 		email: Wade@dcandy.demon.co.uk

