                 ASDG ANNOUNCES MAJOR NEW RELEASE OF ADPRO

ASDG   announces   version   2.0   of  its  award  winning  Art  Department
Professional.  JPEG compression, 24 bit-plane printing through Preferences,
support   of  new  display  boards,  better  color  technology  and  faster
performance highlight the new release.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oakland,  CA, October 4, 1991 ----- ASDG Incorporated , a leading developer
of advanced color image processing software and hardware, announced version
2.0  of  its  award  winning  Art Department Professional (ADPro).  The new
release is said to contain a number of firsts for the Commodore Amiga.

For  example,  ADPro  2  offers  the first Amiga implementation of the JPEG
image   compression  technology  which  dramatically  decreases  the  space
consumed  by  24 bit-plane images.  JPEG support makes it possible to store
large  numbers  of high resolution images in true color by compressing such
images  to  as little as 1/80 of their original size.

Also  a  first,  is  the  ability to use any printer supported by the Amiga
operating  system to create color prints with 24 bit-plane accuracy or gray
scale  prints  with  8  bit-plane  accuracy.  Previously, Amiga owners were
limited  to  color  prints  with  12  bit-planes of accuracy and gray scale
prints  accurate  to only 4 bit-planes.  ADPro's new printer support allows
24  bit-plane  color  posters to be made with no size limitation imposed by
the  software.  Now, even the most inexpensive color printer becomes a high
resolution proofing device.

The new release also adds a number of new file formats (including MicroSoft
Windows  BMP  files),  display boards (Digital Creation's DCTV, GVP's IV24,
the  ACS  Harlequin,  and  others),  and  operators  (including  a  WYSIWYG
anti-aliased  text  operator which utilizes the scalable font technology in
Kickstart 2.0).

ADPro's  color  technology,  already considered to be among the best on any
computer,  has been significantly enhanced to include greater precision and
higher  speed.   The new release even supports 8 bit-plane HAM to make full
use  of BBS's HAM-E and other similarly capable display systems.  

Other  new  features include a Universal loader which automatically detects
and  decodes  most  image  file  formats,  more WYSIWYG operators, and user
interface enhancements which make use of Kickstart 2.0 if present.

ADPro  has  become  the  standard  tool  for  format  conversion  and image
processing.  Being particularly indispensable for large projects, ADPro was
recently  recognized by Commodore Business Machines for its contribution to
the development of CDTV.

The  new release of ADPro carries a suggested list price of $299 and starts
shipping  November  1991.  ASDG is mailing upgrade notices to its installed
base  of  existing  ADPro owners offering the new release for $75 including
shipping  in the United States (international customers may upgrade for $90
including shipping).

Users  who purchased (or upgraded to) ADPro on or after September 1st, 1991
can  upgrade  to version 2 for $30 including shipping in the United States,
or  $45  if  outside  the  U.S.

To  learn more about ASDG's family of color imaging solutions, contact Gina
Cerniglia  at  ASDG  Incorporated, 925 Stewart Street, Madison, WI 53713 or
call (608) 273 - 6585.
