Path: portal!fernwood!uunet!lll-winken!looking!newsbytes
From: newsbytes@clarinet.com
Newsgroups: clari.nb.business,clari.nb.top
Subject: ****Commodore Allies with Mitsui for Japanese CDTV Group 10/14/91
Keywords: Bureau-TOR
Message-ID: <NB911014.27@clarinet.com>
Date: 14 Oct 91 22:13:26 GMT
Lines: 36
Approved: cn@clarinet.com
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 1774
Portal-Location: 15544.3.1473.1

NEW YORK, NEW YORK, U.S.A., 1991 OCT 14 (NB) -- Commodore
International has announced a joint effort with Japan's Mitsui &
Co. to form CDTV Consortium Japan. The group is to promote and
develop Commodore CDTV players and software in Japan. 

Commodore and Mitsui began inviting other Japanese companies to
join the consortium prior to the opening of the Tokyo International
Multimedia Expo '91. Commodore, Mitsui, and Dai-Nippon Printing Co.,
one of Japan's largest printing companies, are the managing
companies to disseminate information on CDTV to members. 

The group will develop new software titles using multimedia
techniques including motion pictures, Commodore said. It will also
work on new products on the CDTV platform. Japan Electronics
Publishing, PCM Complete, and others have already started
planning for the development of software titles in Japanese.

ASCII and a number of other Japanese companies have expressed an
interest in joining the CDTV Consortium Japan, Commodore announced.
Japanese companies interested in the multimedia industry are
expected to join the consortium and a full list of members will be
announced soon. 

The CDTV player, already on sale in the United States and Europe,
is an interactive multimedia player aimed at home and business
buyers. Commodore said CDTV could be used in vertical markets like
point-of-sale displays, corporate training devices, and information
kiosks. Currently, the CDTV Consortium Japan members are developing
titles for these vertical and other markets. 

In Europe and in the United States, 48 CDTV software titles have
been released to date. Commodore said more than 100 are expected to
be available by year-end. 

(Grant Buckler/19911011/Press Contact: Ronald B. Alexander,
Commodore, 215-431-9100)
