I received SIX press releases from Gold Disk, Torrance, CA in the mail
today. I'll post them as separate articles. 

GOLD DISK ANNOUNCES MEDIASHOW, MULTIMEDIA SEQUENCER FOR CREATING
PRESENTATIONS AND MOVIES

Priced below $130, MediaShow allows mixing of animations, titles,
sounds and music on Amiga 500 computers.

Mississauga, Ontario, September 9, 1991 - Gold Disk, the leading
developer of professional productivity software for the Commodore-Amiga
personal computer, announces MediaShow, a multimedia sequencer for
creating presentations and desktop video productions of all kinds,
quickly and easily, especially on the Amiga 500.

"MediaShow can turn the Amiga 500 into the ultimate movie making
machine," said Kailash Ambwani, president of the Toronto based software
developer.  "The easy to use timeline interface, and our patented
multitasking engine, makes creating long running presentations and
movies a reality for every level of Amiga user."

MediaShow is a multimedia sequencer that allows the user to harness the
Amiga's power to combine an play animations, graphics, music, and sound
effects.  With the Amiga's multitasking capabilities and Gold Disk's
patented technology, MediaShow automatically loads upcoming segments of
the movie from disk while the movie is playing.  This allows for long
running, continuous playing animations without waiting for disk loads.

To aid in the creation of movies, MediaShow features a built-in video
titler that can overlay text on top of movies with special effects such
as multi-colored extrusions, shadows, and outlines.  And the wide
variety of built-in wipes, fades, transitions and dissolves gives the
presentations or movies a professional look and feel.

MediaShow's unique timeline user interface makes creating movies
accessible to all levels of users, requiring no complex codes to
remember and no programming.  MediaShow supports files from most paint
programs, 3-D rendering and animation programs, music programs, and
sound digitizers/editors.  No additional hardware is required.

MediaShow is as affordable as it is powerful. Its presentation,
education, and entertainment applications are virtually unlimited.  And
it makes long running presentations or movies available to anyone with
an Amiga 500 and 1MB of memory.

MediaShow will be available in mid September, with a suggested retail
price of $129.95.  MediaShow will run on any Commodore Amiga 500, 1000,
2000, 2500, or 3000 with at least 1 MB of RAM and is Workbench 2.0
compatible.  A hard disk is recommended, but not required.  For more
information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5, Mississauga,
Ontario, Canada L4W 5A1, or call 416-602-4000.

MediaShow and Gold Disk are trademarks of Gold Disk, Inc. All other
trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

                      -- end --
-----
GOLD DISK ANNOUNCES PAGESETTER III, ENHANCED ENTRY LEVEL PAGE LAYOUT
SOFTWARE.

New version to include word processor, spell checker and color paint
program.

Mississauga, Ontario, -- September 9, 1991 -- Gold Disk, the leading
developer of professional productivity software for the Commodore Amiga
personal computer, announces PageSetter III, an enhanced version of
their popular entry level page layout software.

Pagesetter III is designed to provide a complete text and graphics
creation and layout system.  The package includes a full featured page
layout program, a word processor, and spell checker, and a color paint
program.  Also included is a selection of high resolution structured
clip art.

New output capabilities include PostScript compatibility and color
printing of bitmaps and clip art.

PageSetter III will be available in Mid October (1991) with a suggested
retail price of $129.95.  PageSetter III will run on any Amiga 500,
1000, 2000, 2500 or 3000 and is Workbench 2.0 compatible.

For more information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000

                          -- end --
-----
GOLD DISK SHIPS PROFESSIONAL PAGE 2.1 WITH NEW FEATURES AND
ENHANCEMENTS

New version includes interactive help disk produced with HyperBook

Mississauga, Ontario, -- August 29, 1991 -- Gold Disk, the leading
developer of professional productivity software for the Commodore Amiga
personal computer, announces Professional Page 2.1, a free upgrade to
Professional Page, Gold Disk's popular desktop publishing package.

Professional Page 2.1 incorporates the latest version of AGFA
Compugraphics Bullet font scaling technology, and yields speed
increases up to 100% over version 2.0.

Also new for version 2.1 is improved support for all dot matrix
printers, including Hewlett Packard DeskJet and LaserJet printers. 
Landscape printing is now supported and adjustable page offset controls
allow for precise page positioning.

The easy to use, interactive help disk provides tips and tricks for
using Professional Page and answers most commonly asked technical
questions.  Tops covered include: Installation, Using style and
Paragraph Tags, Importing Bitmaps and Professional Draw Clips, Using
Compugraphic Fonts, Output Page Specs, Pantone Colors, and Producing
Color Separations.  A "related topics" requester leads users to the
appropriate sections.  Created entirely using HyperBook, Gold Disk's
freeform information manager, the help disk is freely distributable.

Also included with Professional Page 2.1 are a 50 minute desktop
publishing tutorial video tape and over $575 worth of discount coupons.

Professional Page 2.1 is available immediately and has a suggested
retail price of $395.  Professional Page 2.1 will run on any Amiga 500,
1000, 2000, 2500, or 3000 with at least 2 Mbytes of RAM and is
WorkBench 2.0 compatible.

Registered owners of Professional Page 2.0 may upgrade to version 2.1
at no charge.  Registered owners of Professional Page 1.3 may order the
upgrade for $75.  Registered owners of Professional Page versions 1.2
or earlier may order the upgrade for $100.  Upgrading users receive the
Professional Page 2.1 program disk.

For more information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000

                          -- end --
-----
GOLD DISK SHIPS VIDEODIRECTOR, HOME VIDEO EDITING SYSTEM

Priced under $200, complete system includes easy to use video editing
software and VCR/Camcorder control hardware.

Mississauga, Ontario -- September 9, 1991 -- Gold Disk, the developer
of innovative consumer-inspired software for the Commodore Amiga
personal computer, announces VideoDirector, a complete system for
quickly and easily editing video tape at home.

"The average amateur videographer wastes many hours of time trying to
produce a few minutes of cleanly edited video" said Kailash Ambwani,
president of the Toronto based software publisher.  "VideoDirector's
simple push button interface makes it possible for anyone to easily
assemble their favorite video taped moments into a single smoothly
recorded tape, in a fraction of the time required for manual editing."

The system consists of the VideoDirector software, a universal
"learning" Infrared remote controller, and a serial port interface for
controlling VCRs or camcorders equipped with "remote", "Control-L" or
"LANC" inputs.

The system allows the user to view his video tapes using the computer
to control the camcorder an vcr.  Any number of passages or "clips"
can be selected, named and arranged in any desired order. 
VideoDirector will then assemble the clips into an accurately edited
final tape.

VideoDirector also maintains a video database or library of each clip
the user defines.  The library keeps track of the clips name, the name
of the tape containing the clip, and the clip's exact location on the
tape.  Any clip in the library may be easily located and played.

Editing features include push button copying, cutting and pasting of
clips, and groups of clips.

A manual mode allows for the use of non-remote controllable video
equipment.  Onscreen prompts instruct the user to enter tape counter
information and position the tape when required.  

To allow the addition of titles or graphics to video, VideoDirector
supports Digital Creations' SuperGen genlock.  Graphics may be
automatically faded in and out.

Other video hardware supported includes the Panasonic Selectra AG
1960/RS VCR and Video/Computer interfaces such as the Sony Vbox and
Selectra Vuport.

VideoDirector will be available in early September with a suggested
retail price of $199.95.  VideoDirector will run on any Amiga 500,
1000, 2000, 2500 or 3000 and is WorkBench 2.0 compatible.

For more information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000

                          -- end --
-----
GOLD DISK ANNOUNCES PROFESSIONAL CALC PRESENTATION SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE

High end spreadsheet includes presentation-quality graphs and
PostScript output.

Mississauga, Ontario, -- September 9, 1991 -- Gold Disk, the leading
developer of professional productivity software for the Commodore Amiga
personal computer, announces Professional calc, a high end spreadsheet
and graphing package, targeted at the professional business software
market.

Professional Calc's user interface features a graphical control panel,
for fast access to commonly used functions.

Multiple fonts and colors are supported within the spreadsheet.  User
definable style tags control such attributes as font, type style, point
size, alignment, color, and numeric format.

An outlining feature allows rows or columns to be collapsed and hidden. 
Collapsed outlines may be expanded and displayed when needed.

Professional Calc generates full color two and three dimensional bar
graphs, pie charts, line, column x-y scatter, and area graphs. 
Multiple fonts are also supported, including special text effects such
as embossed, extrude and drop shadow.  On screen color dithering
produces up to 136 colors at one time. 

Spreadsheets and graphs may be output to any PostScript device or
preferences printer.

To provide compatibility with other popular business software packages,
Professional Calc imports Lotus 1-2-3 files, Maxiplan files, and dBase
text files.  Spreadsheets may also be exported in 1-2-3 format.  Graphs
may be saved as IFF bitmaps, Professional Draw clips, Aegis Draw Plus
clips, or Encapsulated PostScript files.

Professional Calc provides over 125 statistical, trigonometric,
financial and user definable functions.  ARexx support includes a total
of 75 functions.  ARexx functions may be called during spreadsheet
recalculation.  Keystroke and mouse macros are also supported.

Multiple spreadsheets, with multiple graphs for each, may be opened,
subject to memory limitations.

Professional calc will be available in Mid October (1991), with a
suggested retail price of $395.  Professional Calc will run on any
Amiga 500, 1000, 2000, 2500, or 3000 equipped with at least 1 MByte of
RAM and is WorkBench 2.0 compatible.

For more information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000

                          -- end --
-----
GOLD DISK ANNOUNCES ANIMATED COLORING BOOK, CHILDREN'S PACKAGE FOR CDTV

Priced under $40, Animated Coloring Book combines creativity with
entertainment for children of all ages.

Mississauga, Ontario, -- September 9, 1991 -- Gold Disk, the leading
developer of innovative, consumer inspired software for the Commodore
Amiga personal computer, announces Animated Coloring Book, a children's
entertainment package for the Commodore CDTV system.

Animated Coloring Book allows children to choose any of 12 animated
scenes, add their own choice of colors, and then bring them to life.

Themes for the animated scenes include circus performers, dinosaurs and
household pets.  Each scene is accompanied by a digitized soundtrack.

By selecting one of three skill levels, children may use up to 61
colors for each animation.  The child may then color in the animation
by selecting from the box of crayons appearing at the bottom of the
screen.  A pre-colored example of each animation is also included. 
Voice prompts guide the child through his choices, and announce the
name of each color as it is selected.

Animated Coloring Book will be available in mid September, with a
suggested retail price of $39.95.  Animated Coloring book is compatible
with the Commodore CDTV.

For more information, contact Gold Disk, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000

                          -- end --
-----
