NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

HyperMedia Concepts,Inc. proudly announces availability of;

The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM
Release 1.3
The definitive source for freely distributable software for the Amiga

Racine, Wisconsin, Sept. 15,1991 -- Hypermedia Concepts announces
availability of Release 1.3 of The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM. 
This update of the disc incorporates several improvements over the 1.2
release of the CD ROM.  Many of these improvements are in response to
users' suggestions.  These improvements include:

- The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM (release 1.3) disk contains the
entire 530 floppy disks of the Fred Fish library of freely
redistributable software (current as of September 1st 1991).  This CD
ROM is the most cost effective way of owning and managing the Fred Fish
Collection.  It provides the entire collection at an equivalent cost of
about 14 cents per floppy disk on a nearly indestructible 5.25 inch CD
ROM disc small enough to fit in a pocket.

- Super Fast Generation of Fish Disks: The CD ROM contains a new high
speed utility program for creating Fred Fish floppy disks.  ExpressFish
is a utility that uses a special version of ExpressWay Software, Inc.'s
Express Copy program to create 'Fish Disks' directly from the CD ROM in
2 minutes or less.  The same process would take 5 to 6 minutes using
standard Amiga copy utilities.  This feature is especially useful to
Amiga user groups.

- CDTV Supported: The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM disc conforms to
the ISO 9660 Standard.  This is the same standard supported by
Commodore's new CDTV.  Release 1.3 is bootable on the CDTV.  The disc
is also usable with any stand alone CD ROM drive connected to an Amiga.

- Improved Support for CLI: Filenames and paths to the files have been
shortened to make the disk more convenient to use under cli.  By
sticking as close as possible to Fred's organization of the library we
have made it very easy to locate any file on the disc using any of the
existing indices to the collection.  The disk contains several tools at
the root level of the disc which allow you to locate virtually any file
in the collection almost immediately.  Utilities such as Timm Martin's
SID utility are also provided at the root level as tools for managing
the files on the disc.

- BBS Support: due to the size of the Fred Fish collection it is no
longer possible to provide both the compressed (LHARC) collection and
the AmigaDOS collection on the same disc, it just simply would not fit. 
We have decided to break out the compressed copy of the collection into
a separate product, The Fred Fish Collection Online CD ROM.  This disc
contains all 530 disks of the Fred Fish collection compressed using
the LHARC program.  This disc is intended for use by BBS sysops that
wish to post the collection online.  The disc is bootable on the
Commodore CDTV, fully supports ParNet for networking the CDTV to other
Amigas, and fully supports MS-DOS file and pathnames.  These are unique
features of this disc.  The disc is sold separately for $69.95 and will
be updated three times a year.  A coupon is included with the Fred Fish
Collection on CD ROM allowing owners of that disc to purchase the Fred
Fish Collection Online CD ROM for $10.

- Improved Support for WorkBench 2.0: The choice of colors and icons
placement were planned with Workbench 2.0 in mind.  This improves the
look and feel of the CD ROM disc under Workbench 2.0.

- The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM was prepared using clean room
procedures from locked disks obtained directly from Fred Fish.  The
disc was checked frequently during development for virus infection to
insure that it was virus free.

- The disc contains over 450 megabytes of data and over 69,500 separate
files.  This may be the largest number of files ever placed on a single
CD ROM disc.  Future releases will contain even more data.

The Fred Fish Collection on cD ROM is list priced at $74.95.  The disc
is updated every 4 months at a cost of $29.95 to registered owners.  A
money saving subscription is also available.  

The Fred Fish Collection on CD ROM began shipping on September 10,
1991, and is available for immediate delivery.

Special Note Regarding Shareware: The CD ROM is intended to be a
distribution medium much like a BBS or online service.  Since much of
the contents of the disc is shareware, owners of the disc are reminded
to pay the shareware fees for programs they use on a regular basis. 
The cost of the disc covers only data preparation and distribution
costs and does not absolve the owner of the disc from responsibility of
paying shareware fees for the programs they use.

For information or to order contact us at:

HyperMedia Concepts, Inc.
5200 Washington Ave., Suite 226
Racine, WI 53406
Voice: 414-632-3766
Fax: 414-632-3983

                        ## 30 ##
-----
Note.. I have both the new Fish CD ROM discs mentioned above and will
be covering them in a future issue of .info magazine in my Multimedia
column.  I am using them with CDTV. If you have any questions, feel
free to direct them in my general direction. 
Harv
