This press release from Commodore arrived in my U.S. Mailbox today..
-----
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

For Further Information:
Sherri Snelling/David Ellis
Rogers & Associates
(213) 552-6922

COMMODORE LOWERS PRICE OF CDTV PLAYER

GROLIER'S ENCYCLOPEDIA AND LEMMINGS BUNDLE MAKE CDTV INTERACTIVE
MULTIMEDIA PACKAGE EXCEPTIONAL VALUE

WEST CHESTER, Penn., November 20, 1991 -- Commodore announced today
that the CDTV Interactive Multimedia Player has a new suggested retail
price of $799.  Currently bundled with "The New Grolier Electronic
Encyclopedia" and the popular adventure game, "Lemmings", the CDTV
package is an exceptional purchase for the whole family this holiday
season.

"CDTV illustrates how interactive multimedia can change the way
consumers can be educated and entertained," said David Rosen,
Commodore's director of international marketing.  "The attractive, new
price of the CDTV player, coupled with the savings value of almost
$450 for the two bundled CDTV titles, supports our commitment to offer
consumers the best value for this new medium."

In addition to the "Grolier's Encyclopedia" disc, which contains all 21
volumes of the Grolier Academic American Encyclopedia, and the popular
"Lemmings" title, Commodore offers nearly 60 CDTV discs in categories
such as arts and leisure, education, entertainment, music and
reference.  The CDTV player also plays traditional 5-inch audio-Compact
Discs and the new CD+G (Compact Disc Plus Graphics) titles.  Suggested
retail prices for most titles range from $39.95 to $79.95.

CDTV Interactive Multimedia represents a major advance in technology
and capability over any commercially available entertainment format. 
The CDTV player, which connects to the home TV set and stereo, combines
audio, video, graphics and text with computer interactivity to
transform your living room into an exciting entertainment, learning,
and reference center.  The CDTV player is controlled by a simple hand-
held remote control which provides interactive access to an entire
library of multimedia titles on Compact Discs.

Commodore, though its worldwide operations, is one of the world's
leading producers of computer-based consumer and business products.

Commodore and the Commodore logo, Commodore Dynamic Total Vision, CDTV
and CDTV Interactive Multimedia are trademarks of Commodore Electronics
Limited.

                          #   #   #
