
	COMMODORE (R) PUTS POWER OF UNIX WITHIN MORE AMIGA USERS' REACH

		   Version 2.1 of UNIX SVR4 (R) Introduced

		    Now Available at 40% Price Reduction
		    ------------------------------------

	
	    West Chester, Pa.  -- February 12, 1992 -- In response to

	changing market conditions, Commodore Business Machines, Inc.,

	is making the increased performance of UNIX available to more

	AMIGA users.


	    The company introduces Version 2.1 of AMIGA UNIX System V

	Release 4 (SVR4) -- an operating system module for AMIGA 2000

	and 3000 series machines.  Version 2.1 allows standard access

	to the X Window System (TM) and Open Look (TM) for the desktop

	environment.  In addition, it provides standard networking

	capabilities such as TCP/IP, NFS (TM) and RFS (TM) to handle

	networking across different environments.

	
	    "AMIGA UNIX is easy to use and structured for future growth,"

	said Geoff Stilley, vice president sales, Commodore.  "Version

	2.1 can be installed on the same hard disk in different

	partitions as both AmigaDOS (TM) and MS-DOS (TM) for more

	extended functionality."

	
	    Version 2.1 provides several user interface shells,

	including Bourne Shell, C Shell, Korn Shell, Restricted Shell,

	Remote Shell and Job Control Shell.  Also, it features a

	simple-to-use e-mail system, plus emacs and vi, two

	screen-based text and program editors.  Multiple virtual

	screens are available in addition to multiple windows, so each

	of several users can have a screen on the same machine, or a

	user can have separate virtual screens for different uses.
		

	    "With Version 2.1, AMIGA users now have significantly

	increased performance," Stilley said.  "It is a full

	implementation of UNIX SVR4 and includes additional useful

	features at a very competitive market price."

	
	    The Version 2.1 bundle includes manuals and documentation,

	a magnetic tape containing the operating system and other

	utilities, and boot disks for loading and installing Version

	2.1.  A two user license can be purchased as of February 12,

	1992 for $995, and an unlimited user license costs $1195.
	          ---	                                    ----
	More information is available through Authorized Commodore

	Dealers.

	
	    As part of the AMIGA UNIX Version 2.1 introduction,

	Commodore has announced a reduction on their AMIGA 3000UX

	Systems effective until April 30, 1992.  The AMIGA 3000UX CPU

	will include the UNIX Version 2.1 Operating System, a 200

	MByte drive, nine MBytes of RAM, keyboard, 3 button mouse, the

	2410 high-resolution color card, and Ethernet (R) card (for

	both thick and thin Ethernet), plus the customer's choice of

	either an A1950 color monitor or an A3070 tape drive (SCSI)

	unit, for $4998.00.  Sold separately, the suggested list price

	of this system is $8495.00.

	
	    "The introductory pricing is a part of Commodore's goal to

	provide technical solutions at affordable prices for users,"

	Stilley said.  "The AMIGA 3000UX is not just another hardware

	clone, it provides a unique platform of this industry standard

	operating system."

	
	    Commodore Business Machines, based in West Chester, Pa.,

	markets a complete line of computers and peripherals for

	business, education, government and consumer markets.

	
	    Commodore is a registered trademark of Commodore

	Electronics, Ltd.  AMIGA, AMIGA 3000UX and AmigaDOS are

	trademarks of Commodore-Amiga, Inc.  UNIX and UNIX SVR4 are

	registered trademarks of UNIX Systems Laboratories, Inc. and

	Open Look is a trademark of AT&T.  X Window System is a

	trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  NFS

	is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems.

	
			       #  #  #

--
Please see monthly postings for the disclaimer, the introduction, the charter,
and submission instructions.  Comments to zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu.
MAIL ALL SUBMISSIONS TO announce@cs.ucdavis.edu (don't auto-post).
