Do not send me email regarding this position.
Any email resumes I receive will be discarded.
-DM-


------------------------------- cut here ---------------------------------
[ We would appreciate your help in cross-posting this message to the Amiga
and job offer areas of other electronic bulletin boards.  Thank you. ]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

			CATS POSITION AVAILABLE

Here's your chance to be a CAT !

CATS (Commodore Applications and Technical Support) has an opening
in our Amiga Developer Support technical group.

We are looking for an Amiga/CDTV Support Engineer with varied
Amiga programming experience and skills in written and verbal
communication.  We would be especially interested in anyone
whose experience includes programming Amiga hardware ( custom
chips, interrupts, device drivers, ...)

CATS provides support for Amiga and CDTV developers via telephone,
electronic BBS, AmigaMail articles, sample code, debugging tools,
developer's conferences, and developer manuals.

If you'd like to work with a great team

	If you'd like to see your name in print

		If wouldn't mind doing ALL of your work
			on networked Amigas and Unix machines !


Apply today!  If you've applied before, please apply again.

If you are applying for any other positions at Commodore, and
would also like to be considered for this CATS position,
please attach a note to your resume indicating that you would
like a copy of your resume forwarded to CATS.

Please include any salary requirements, a list of your Amiga
programming experience, and, if possible, examples of Amiga code
you have written.


--------------- Job Description and Application Address ---------------

Position:  Amiga/CDTV Support Engineer II
Location:  Commodore Applications and Technical Support (CATS)
           Commodore International Ltd., West Chester, PA.  215-431-9100

Apply to:  Human Resources Department
           Commodore International Ltd.
           1200 Wilson Drive
           West Chester, PA.  19380
           ATTN: CATS Support Engineer Applications


Job Description
---------------

The successful candidate for the position of Amiga Support Engineer
will be actively dedicated to ensuring that Commodore's third party
software and hardware developers can obtain answers to technical
issues related to developing quality software and hardware for Amiga
platforms.


Responsibilities
----------------

o  To provide software and hardware development support to third party
   developers through direct contact, telephone, electronic mail,
   electronic information systems, examples, and
   developer documentation.

o  Research and provide solutions to developer questions and problems.
   This can include communicating with Commodore's R&D staff, and writing
   test programs.

o  Write technical articles and assist in the development of developer
   documentation.

o  Program utilities and examples to aid in development and debugging.

o  Handle developer bug reports.

o  Test new system and development hardware and software.

o  Keep up on on all technical aspects of Commodore systems,
   as well as new developments and emerging standards.



Education and experience
------------------------

o  At least 2 years microcomputer programming experience

o  Experience (diverse as possible) in programming the Amiga

o  Proficient in C, assembler experience (preferably 68000) beneficial

o  Strong communication skills---written and verbal---required.

o  Must be organized, and have initiative.
