                       Press Release
                       -------------

February 1st, 1992: Glasgow, Montana - Black Belt Systems, a
leading developer of 24-bit image manipulation software for
the Amiga personal computer, has announced the addition of
true infinite morphing of 24-bitplane images to the
company's flagship software product, Imagemaster.

Imagemaster's new morph capability provides the user with
complete control over the morph process geometry and
colorimetry over any desired number of automatically tweened
24-bit image frames.

The company has made demonstration animations available on
national telecomm networks such as CIS (CompuServe), and on
the company's own multi-line, high-speed support bulletin
board system. These animations show morphs of one face to
another, a frog to a human face, and a ray-traced ball into
a Toucan (a tropical bird).

Morphing is a special image process that has recently become
well-known due to it's use in advertisements, music videos,
and commercial cinema productions. It can be described as a
process which converts one image into another image by
creating intermedate images which have characteristics of
both the original images; successive images in a morph
sequence take on more of the final image characteristics
until a complete transformation has been performed.

According to Mike French at Black Belt Systems, the addition
of morphing to Imagemaster is "...simply the continuation of
Imagemaster's natural progression forward as one of the
leading image manipulation packages for desktop computer
systems." He went on to add that "Our morphing capability
joins an already wide selection of tools for geometric image
manipulation in Imagemaster such as lens effects, motion
blur, wave surface generation and so on. It fits right in."
When asked to describe Imagemaster as a whole, Mr.  French
said "it's an image manipulation package which offers
processing, compositing, painting and analysis, all in 24-
bit accuracy. We've designed it to meet the user's needs for
a complete high-color image toolkit."

Imagemaster, which retails for $199.95, is available from
Amiga dealers and directly from Black Belt Systems. It began
shipping on October 1st, 1991.  Review copies are available
at the request of magazine editorial departments.

For further information, Black Belt Systems technical
support line may be called 9am to 5pm, mountain standard
time at (406) 367-5509. There is also a toll-free direct
sales line at (800) 852-6442. Outside the USA, call (406)
367-5513. FAX (406) 367-2329.

Imagemaster is distributed in the USA by Micro-Pace
Distributors and American Software Distributors.
Distributors outside the US, please enquire.
