                            Press Release
                            -------------

February 19th, 1992: Glasgow, Montana - Black Belt Systems, a leading
developer of 24-bit image manipulation software for the Amiga personal
computer, has announced the addition of a user-friendly multi-image
sequence processing capability specifically intended to aid in the
generation of animations.

Black Belt's newest release of it's program Imagemaster (version 8)
provides a user-friendly interface incorporating simulated filmstrips,
built-in variable speed animation previewing, and VCR style handling
of filmstrip frames.

The new capabilities allow the user to maintain filmstrips showing
any chosen sequence of frames, or an automatically generated record of
each change made to the image(s) being manipulated. The filmstrip may
be of any user-specified length, and animated at variable speeds
without having to resort to external animation tools. A complete
preview of the desired effect can be created without generating any
new output files or consuming large amounts of memory. Any sequence of
processes may be applied to each frame at the user's direction,
resulting in a high degree of flexibility and power.

All processes are performed to 24-bits accuracy or better; output from
the multi-frame processing tools may be either standard 24-Bit IFF or
any standard native Amiga graphics mode.

In a related action, Black Belt has completely rewritten Imagemaster's
capabilities for rendering to native Amiga graphics modes in release
8. According to Mike French of Black Belt Systems, This was done to
complement the new animation support tools. Multiple new dither
options, special raster controls and color space manipulations are
available as part of the new rendering tools. Mr. French says that
"...the rendering capabilities now in place in Imagemaster use
techniques not seen before in commercial software; our implementation
of Chekov forcing combined with serpentine error propogation
techniques yeild significantly improved images over those generated by
earlier rendering software for the Amiga, including earlier versions
of Imagemaster."

Imagemaster, which retails for $199.95, is available from Amiga
dealers and directly from Black Belt Systems. It began shipping on
October 1st, 1991.  Review copies are available at the request of
magazine editorial departments. 68030/FPU optomized versions of the
software are available to registered users directly from the company
for a moderate fee.

For further information, Black Belt Systems technical support line may
be called 9am to 5pm, mountain standard time at (406) 367-5509. There
is also a toll-free direct sales line at (800) 852-6442. Outside the
USA, call (406) 367-5513. FAX (406) 367-2329.

Imagemaster is distributed in the USA by Micro-Pace Distributors and
American Software Distributors.  Distributors outside the US, please
enquire.
