[typed in from a paper mailing I received on 3/26/92 from Gold Disk]

NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Contact: Mike Iampietro
Gold Disk Inc.
(310) 320-5080

GOLD DISK ANNOUNCES END USER AVAILABILITY OF PROFESSIONAL PAGE 3.0 WITH
MAJOR NEW FEATURES AND ENHANCEMENTS

Automated Genies [tm] usher in a new era of ease of use and user
programmability for desktop publishers.

Mississauga, Ontario -- March 16, 1992 -- Gold Disk Inc. today
announced immediate availability of a major upgrade to Professional
Page, their award winning desktop publishing program for the Commodore
Amiga personal computer.

"Version 3.0 represents a major breakthrough in the evolution of
desktop publishing" explains Kailash Ambwani, president of Gold Disk
Inc.  "Most of the routine tasks associated with page layout are now
completely automatic, freeing the designer to concentrate on the
creative aspects of his work."

The new version incorporates more than 30 automatic functions or
"Genies", facilitating fast and effortless creation of professional
quality documents.

By selecting "Create Page From Genie", users can quickly and easily
create page layouts and designs.  Requesters allow the user to select
the layout type, page size, columns, margins and other specifications. 
In addition, users may choose from advanced features including line
drawing and placement, address printing and text importing. 
Professional Page 3.0 will then generate a complete page layout based
on the users specifications.  A variety of different layout styles may
be created, including newsletters, brochures, advertisements, and
flyers.

Function genies automate many routine desktop publishing operations. 
Functions include push button envelope addressing, automatic mail merge
from an external database, and automatic grid and table creation.  Text
formatting functions include automatic drop caps, automatic drop
shadows, automatic small caps, and automatic sub and super scripts.

Using over 300 ARexx commands included with version 3.0, users may
customize Professional Page by creating their own Genie functions. 
Possible functions include hot links to databases or spreadsheets,
batch printing, or automatic graphic sizing and placement.

Other new features include irregular text wrap, an undo button,
enhanced color separation and under color removal algorithms, auto-
tiling for output of larger pages, and text import filters for most
popular word processors including ProWrite, Excellence, and QuickWrite.

Professional Page 3.0 includes 5 new AGFA Compugraphic scalable outline
typefaces, for a total of 7 typefaces.  Adobe Type 1 fonts are also
supported and all fonts can be scaled in increments of 0.125 points.

Graphic handling will be enhanced with a hot link to Professional Draw
3.0 making it possible to export a structured drawing to Professional
Draw, edit the drawing and return it to Professional Page. 
Professional Draw 3.0 will be available later this year.

Professional Page 3.0 will run on any Amiga with at least 2 MB of AM
and a hard disk drive and is Workbench 2.0 compatible.

Professional Page 3.0 is available now, with a suggested retail price
of $295.00.

For more information, contact Gold Disk Inc, 5155 Spectrum Way, Unit 5,
Mississauga, Ontario, CANADA, L4W 5A1, or call 1-416-602-4000.

-end-
