 
April 27th, 1992
 
Information reguarding the product "EMPLANT" from Utilities Unlimited,
Inc.  This information is freely re-distributable and may be placed on
any BBS or network except Q-Link.
 
What is EMPLANT?
----------------
 
EMPLANT is a hardware/software product that is designed to allow the
emulation of virtually any computer using the Amiga.  A simple software
driver and ROM(s) from the computer to emulated are all that is required.
Features and software compatibility will depend on the software driver.
 
 
About the hardware
------------------
 
The hardware holds the key to emulation speed.  Every effort was made to
make the hardware virsatile enough that we should never have to upgrade
it to handle the emulation of forth comming computer systems.  For this 
reason, we have included components that may never be used, however, 
this does insure the fact that we are prepared for the future.  
 
The MAC series of computers, although different from one another, share
the same basic technology.  We can replicate this technology by emulating
the MAC's custom chips through a reliable hardware system.  All timers,
interrupts, and clocks are handled on a hardware level so that speed is
identical (or even faster) than the real computer being emulated.
 
Support for custom EPROMs, static RAM, and SIMM modules makes our hardware
compatible with all existing methods of storing a computer's operating
system.  This versatility also allows us to create adapter boards if some
new method of OS storage becomes available.  The EMPLANT hardware has four
empty 28 pin ROM/RAM sockets provided for use with operating systems that
are stored in DIP format (such as 128K MAC+ ROMs are).  These sockets
can also be used to store your own utility software in EPROM format.  We
plan to release a utility package that will be literally "at your
fingertips".  Another option is to fill the four sockets with 32Kx8 static
RAMs, giving you 128K of extra RAM that you could write protect and make
auto-booting, which would be handy for floppy-only customers.
 
The hardware comes in two forms: a plug in card that occupies one of the
Zoro II/III slots on your A2000/2500/3000, and a plug in card that fits on
the expansion bus on your A500/1000.  For the A500/1000 version, there is
a pass-thru that allows you to plug in your existing equipment.
 
The Apple Nu-Bus expansion ports are not emulated through hardware because
they are now RAM-based device drivers which operate faster than a MAC's
own
hardware.
 
 
* AVAILABLE HARDWARE OPTIONS *
 
HIGH SPEED MAC SERIAL PORTS/APPLE TALK SUPPORT
 
The MAC serial port is not emulated, it is duplicated - using the exact
same
standard dual high speed serial interface IC.  Apple Talk is completely
supported through this port like the MAC, via a 8 pin mini-din connector.
This dual high speed serial port can be used on the Amiga side as well,
allowing the connection of two serial devices operating independantly.
Communication speed on these ports are a maximum of 230.4K baud, which is
the speed at which Apple Talk runs.  Maximum modem speed is generally
limited to 57.6K baud.
 
 
SCSI INTERFACE
 
A simple, non-autobooting SCSI controller using NCR8490 high speed
controller IC.  Capable of non-DMA transfers up to 800K per second.
Support for up to 7 SCSI devices including CD ROMs, tape backup units,
and hand scanners.  This SCSI interface can be used on both the Amiga
side and the MAC side, independantly or simotaneously.
 
 
 
 
About the MAC IIx emulation software
------------------------------------
 
The MAC IIx emulator software is relatively simple since the majority of
the emulation is done on a hardware level, giving both better
compatibility
and equally important, emulation speed.
 
The software reads the MAC ROM SIMM module that is installed on the
EMPLANT
board, dumps the ROM image into a block of memory, and patches the image
to run on your Amiga.  One intelligent move on the part of Apple was to
define "global" variables for their operating system.  This makes it
relatively simple to move the code around without a lot of hassles.
Since the MAC IIx is a 68030 based machine, it has a AMU or PPMU to map
memory into various locations.  Using a 68020/30/40 with an MMU allows
virtually 100% compatibility when running MAC software on the emulator.
Another big advantage of having a MMU in your Amiga is that the emulator
will multi-task with the Amiga.  
 
You can transfer files back and forth between file formats without the
need of transfer software.  The MAC IIx operating system supports a
FFS (Foreign filing system).  This is the link to the Amiga.  ANY AmigaDOS
device can be used on the MAC side.  This means that floppys, hard drives,
CD ROMs, and even non-standard AmigaDOS devices (such as MessyDOS) can
be used as valid devices on the MAC side.
 
Full color (up to 256 colors) can be emulated with various 12bit and 24bit
video boards.  Support for DCTV, HAME, Firecracker, and others is
provided by video device driver software modules.  Up to 16 colors can be
displayed using the standard Amiga video output.
 
Sound is emulated exactly via PAULA.  The MAC IIx has 4 channel stereo
sound nearly identical to the Amiga, so this is easy to emulate on a
software level using the existing Amiga hardware.
 
The MAC 400/800K disk format is emulated by using the already successful
SYBIL hardware package.  High density (1.44mb) floppys are supported via
the CBM 1.76mb drives, as well as "do-it-yourself" high density drives
that many people have built themselves.  Complete interface schematics
will be provided (along with information where to find the necessary
components and the high density drive mechanics) with EMPLANT so that
anyone with the basic soldering skills can build their own high density
floppy drive.
 
 
 
Future emulation
----------------
 
Since the EMPLANT's hardware is so versatile, a completely new and 
different computer can be emulated by just changing the emulation
software patch and the ROM(s).  MAC IIfx, MAC QUADRA, Mega ST, and
IBM AT (386/486) emulators are planned in the future.
 
 
 
Price and availability
----------------------
 
Current retail price for the basic EMPLANT system is $199 + shipping.
 
Basic EMPLANT system with High speed serial ports/Apple Talk support
is $259.00 + shipping.
 
Basic EMPLANT system with high speed SCSI interface is $259.00 +
shipping.
 
Deluxe EMPLANT system with both high speed serial ports/Apple Talk
support AND high speed SCSI interface is $299 + shipping.
 
All EMPLANT packages described above come with the MAC IIx emulation
software and necessary device drivers.
 
The EMPLANT systems will be shipping no later than the third week in July
of 1992.
 
* Product specifications and prices are subject to change without notice *
 
To be placed on a mailing for more information, please contact
Utilities Unlimited at:
 
1641 McCulloch Blvd. Suite #25-124
Lake Havasu City, AZ  86403
(602) 680-9004
 
 
Jim Drew, Vice-President
          Utilities Unlimited, Inc.

--
.     Jim Drew - Vice President, Utilities Unlimited of Arizona, Inc.
                (602) 680-9004      (602) 680-9006
                       Support BBS (602) 453-9767
