MERISEL SIGNS AGREEMENT WITH COMMODORE 

EL SEGUNDO, CA (JUNE 1) PR NEWSWIRE - Merisel Inc. (NASDAQ: MSEL) today
announced a sole national distribution agreement with Commodore Business
Machines Inc. to distribute its entire multimedia PC product line, including
the Amiga(R) PC series and the CDTV(R) Multimedia Player to U.S. resellers. 
Commodore(R) has been an international leader in multimedia for many years,
with more than 3 million machines installed, and this agreement marks the
company's first entrance into the national PC distribution channel.

   "Multimedia is emerging as one of the fastest-growing and most profitable
product categories among resellers today," said Merisel Vice President of
Strategic Product Planning Linda Kroog, "and Commodore has been on the
forefront of this technology for a long time.  The company has continually
enhanced all of its multimedia products as the category has matured, and it
continues to offer its PC products at very competitive prices.  Commodore
represents a strategic addition to our multimedia products offering.  We will
support all its products and its entrance into this channel through the
dedicated marketing resources we've put behind our systems and multimedia
strategies for 1992."

   "Partnering with Merisel provides us with a strong distribution arm in the
U.S. and will give us added reach in marketing the Amiga and CDTV product
families," said Commodore President James Dionne.  "This agreement is
representative of our continuing commitment to aggressively market this
technology."

   Commodore Vice President of Professional Sales Geoffrey Stilley said,
"Merisel has a great reputation for assisting its value-added resellers with
their vertical market sales.  Our products specifically benefit users in the
fields of interactive training, advertising, graphic design, video and
presentation graphics."

   Commodore offers a complete product line of multimedia machines, from
delivery systems such as the CDTV player to high-end development systems
such as the Amiga 3000 series.  These machines meet the demanding performance
requirements in the areas of presentations, interactive applications,
videographics and general business.

   The Amiga Series is the only microcomputer platform designed from the ground
up for multimedia applications.  Each Amiga 3000 comes with AmigaVision(TM)
authoring systems, and can be made compatible with MS-DOS(R) or an existing
Novell network.  Also, additional hardware and software is available for these
units, which allows users to import and export files from the Amiga to a PC or
Macintosh.  Commodore's CDTV player can be connected to a video monitor and
sound system to deliver interactive multimedia presentations.

   Commodore Business Machines Inc. is a U.S.-based subsidiary of Commodore
International (NYSE: CBU), a publicly held worldwide manufacturer of personal
computers listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Commodore, CDTV and
AmigaVision are trademarks of Commodore Electronics Ltd.  Amiga is a trademark
of Commodore-Amiga Inc. MS-DOS is a trademark of Microsoft Corp.

   Merisel Inc. is the world's largest publicly held distributor of
microcomputer hardware and software products.  The company presently stocks
products from more than 700 manufacturers for sale to 50,000 resellers
worldwide.  It currently maintains 16 distribution centers that serve North
America, Europe, Latin America and Australia.  Merisel sells more than 10,000
products and offers a wide range of services to support resellers with the
sales of these products.
