COMMODORE (R) INTERNATIONAL NAMES DIRECTOR
OF APPLICATIONS AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

June 15, 1992 --- Commodore International today announced the
appointment of John F. Campbell as director of Commodore Applications
and Technical Support (CATS), effective immediately. The CATS group is
responsible for supporting and establishing development and quality
standards for the over 1500 developers who produce software and
hardware products for the Amiga (R) and CDTV (R) Multimedia Player
product lines.

   Campbell reports directly to Commodore International's Director of
Worldwide Software Engineering, Ned McCook. "John is well prepared for
his new role," said McCook. "His depth of product knowledge combined
with his management skills and respect for our developers will help
strengthen Commodore's relationship with our development community."

   A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania with degrees in
technology management and computer science, Campbell has held a number
of key development positions within Commodore since joining the company
in 1982. He assisted in the launch of the VIC-20 and Commodore 64
computers and is one of the people responsible for the tremendous
software support they received from developers, which led to the success
of both products.

   Since 1985, Campbell has concentrated on bringing high quality,
diverse products to market for the company's line of Amiga computers. A
major highlight is AmigaVision, for which he headed the team that
defined the need for an authoring system that would take more advantage
of all the multimedia features of the Amiga. AmigaVision has won a
number of industry awards and is broadly used by multimedia developers
worldwide

   This position announcement coincides with moving the CATS group
into Commodore's Engineering division. "This change will help strengthen
ties between Commodore's development efforts and the work of our
developers," noted Campbell. "We will now be in a better position to move
our proprietary technology forward quickly so that Commodore can
continue to provide leading edge hardware at affordable prices."

   Commodore International, through its worldwide operations, is one of
the world's leading producers of computer-based consumer and business
products.

   Commodore (R), CDTV (R), VIC-20 (R), Commodore 64 (R) and
AmigaVision are trademarks of Commodore Electronics Limited. Amiga is a
trademark of Commodore-Amiga Inc.
