Path: portal!uunet!cis.ohio-state.edu!ucbvax!ucdavis!toadflax.cs
From: jpotter@ucs.adelaide.edu.au (Jonathan Potter)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.announce
Subject: WARNING!!  Pirated escaped Directory Opus 3.50 BETA damages disks
Message-ID: <15647@ucdavis.ucdavis.edu>
Date: 30 Jul 92 08:35:05 GMT
Sender: usenet@ucdavis.ucdavis.edu
Reply-To: jpotter@ucs.adelaide.edu.au (Jonathan Potter)
Followup-To: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Organization: INOVAtronics
Lines: 48
Approved: zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 2603
Portal-Location: 17258.3.280.1

Over the past 6 weeks or so a pirated version of Directory Opus 3.50 has
been spread around the world. This is an "escaped" BETA version that was
released by an indiscreet beta-tester. The offender has not been pinpointed
yet but I expect him/her to be identified soon, and legal action may be taken
against them.

The above notwithstanding, the version of 3.50 circulating contains many bugs
and several routines that are unfinished. This is the nature of beta copies.
Unfortunately, the version does not actually say it is a beta-copy, a mistake
I now regret.

The bugs, which I am not going to list here, range from mild to serious ones.
Several beta-testers have suffered hard drive damage and data loss due to the
more serious ones (sorry guys :-), and the program is generally unstable in
many areas.

Therefore, if you obtain a copy of this version of Directory Opus, for your
own sake don't use it. I don't want the program to develop a bad reputation
because of the misbehaviour of an unfinished version.

The legitimate version 3.50 (which will probably not be called that now)
is expected to be released sometime in August or September. It will contain
many new features over and above those in the pirated version 3.50. All
registered users will be notified when the new version is ready.

Needless to say I am unhappy about what has occurred. If you can't trust your
beta testers who can you trust? People who spread pirated software (especially
unfinished versions) can be totally blamed for the low number of high quality
programs available for the Amiga. I have become generally disillusioned with
the whole business, and am myself seriously considering moving to an IBM or
Unix platform after the next version of Directory Opus is finished.

The moral of the story I guess is to trust no-one. But everyone else, please,
if you come across Directory Opus 3.50, don't copy it. And encourage the person
who offers it to you to delete it himself. Otherwise, the Amiga's already
small number of developers may decrease by one more.

Jonathan Potter / INOVAtronics
-- 
| Jonathan Potter |                              | A                       |
| P.O. Box 289    | jpotter@itd.adelaide.edu.au  |   Suffusion             |
| Goodwood, SA    | FidoNet : 3:680/829          |               Of        |
| Australia  5034 |                              |                  Yellow |

--
Please see monthly postings for the disclaimer, the introduction, the charter,
and submission instructions.  Comments to zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu.
MAIL ALL SUBMISSIONS TO announce@cs.ucdavis.edu (don't auto-post).
