NEW YORK (AUG. 19) PR NEWSWIRE - Commodore International Limited (NYSE: CBU)
today reported earnings of $27.6 million, or $.82 per share on sales of $911
million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992.  This compares with net
income of $48.2 million, or $1.45 per share after extraordinary charge on
sales of $1,047.2 million reported for fiscal 1991.
   For the fourth fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1992, Commodore reported a
net loss of $21.9 million or $0.66 per share on sales of $140.7 million.  In
the prior year quarter, Commodore reported net income of $3.3 million or
$0.10 per share on sales of $216.5 million.
   The decline in sales for the fourth quarter was related to the
discontinuation of the low-end MS-DOS products, and a reduction in C64 sales
due to economic weakness in European markets, especia lly Eastern Europe.
Despite the significant economic softness throughout Europe, Amiga revenues
were equal to the prior year, although peripheral sales declined.  While
overall PC revenues declined, revenues related to the continuing PC product
range increased significantly.
   Gross profit for the quarter declined as a result of lower revenues, net
unfavorable pricing, volume related cost inefficiencies, and the adverse
impact of hedging and translation adjustments which substantially offset the
favorable impact on revenues of strengthening European currencies.
Operating expenses were reduced by 14 percent. Other income amounted to $8.7
million, primarily reflecting net gains from the sale of certain properties.
As a result of these factors, the pre-tax loss for the quarter was $26.9
million compared with a pre-tax loss of $4.3 million in the prior year.  The
tax benefit for the quarter was significantly lower than the prior year,
resulting in a net loss of $21.9 million compared with net income of $3.3
million in the prior year.
   Irving Gould, chairman and chief executive officer, stated: "Although we
are disappointed with our fourth quarter results, we remained substantially
profitable for the fiscal year.  Our results for the quarter primarily
reflect global economic softness, especially in major European consumer
markets.  We sold over 1 million Amigas in fiscal 1992 and are planning to
launch new Amiga products as we enter our traditionally strong Christmas
selling season.  We are also redoubling our efforts to expand our PC
business and achieve  substantially greater cost efficiencies."
   Commodore International Limited, through its operating subsidiaries
around the world, manufactures and markets personal computers to customers
in the professional, government, education and consumer market sectors.  The
company has four product lines: the Amiga multimedia computers, the MS-DOS
PC compatibles, the C64 computers, and the CDTV.
   CONTACT:  Ronald B. Alexander, chief financial officer and secretary of
Commodore International Limited, 215-431-9100
