                   P R O D U C T   A N N O U N C E M E N T



Company:	KludgeCode Software
		P.O. Box 1163
		Holland, MI  49422-1163
		(616)393-9757
		(616)393-9758 (24 hour BBS)

Product:	TRexx Professional

Version:	2.0

Release Date:	October, 1992

Price:		$159.95 (suggested retail)

Upgrade Price:	$30.00



TRexx Professionl v2.0 represents a major upgrade to our "Point-and-Click"
ARexx script generator.  The following list represents most, but not all,
of the changes and additions that have been made to the program.


- A completely new manual.  The TRexx Professional manual has been
  completely rewritten and now includes easy access for finding features
  and solutions to problems.  The manual also includes a more informative
  "Tips" section to help users get the most out of the program.

- The script window has been given a new horizontal scroll bar.  With this
  new feature it is no longer a problem if a command is too long to fit in
  the window.  The scroll bar allows you to slid the entire list to the
  side to be able to read every command, no matter how long.

- The script can now be scrolled with the arrow keys on the keyboard.  This
  is true for both vertical and horizontal scrolling.

- A new editing command has been added:  Cut.  This works like copying and
  deleting, but in one step.

- The edit buttons have been made larger and their names are no longer
  abbreviated.  This makes finding the functions much easier.

- The crouton images for the Switcher effects are now read directly from
  the Toaster's project file.  This means that it is no longer necessary
  to have seperate image files with custom imagery (this is probably the
  most requested feature that we've added).

- Setting/resetting transition speed is now a matter of a single mouse
  click.  This allows you to quickly and easily change any of the default
  transition durations to any value that you like, and it is just as easy
  to set them back to the default.

- Double clicking on a crouton will cause an "Auto" command to be inserted
  in the script, just like Switcher 2.0 does.

- Test script has been enhanced to allow you to compute a script's running
  time (accurate to the frame).  This is extremely handy when your script
  needs to be synchronized to music or some other external events.

- CG page numbers can now be read from the keyboard/serial device during
  script execution.  This allows you to have remote access to CG pages at
  run time, much like professional character generators do.  It also allows
  you to access ANY CG page in ANY order.

- The "REXX" button has been enhanced.  When you select a line in a script
  and then click on the "REXX" button the ARexx portion of the command
  will be loaded into a requester so that it can be changed in any way.
  This is especially handy to people who are a little more versed in ARexx
  and would like to take extra control of what the script is doing.

- TRexx Professional scripts can now be printed, in English, on any
  Preferences printer.  Printing an ARexx script used to be an excercize in
  futility (unless you can read ARexx), but now TRexx Pro allows you to
  print the English portions of your scripts so others (or yourself) can
  look at your scripts on paper.

- The "Wait Serial" button has been enhanced to allow you to specify ANY
  Amiga device as the input for a character or sequence of characters.  This
  allows you to have scripts that, for instance, wait for a key press (such
  as the space bar) before continuing.

- A "Send Serial" button has been added for sending "one time" commands out
  to the serial port.  Like "Wait Serial," though, you are not limited to
  the serial port.  TRexx Pro allows you to send the character sequence to
  ANY Amiga device.

- TRexx Professional now directly supports programs other than the Switcher.
  While you COULD send commands to any external program with an ARexx port
  with v1.02 of TRexx Pro, it was not an easy chore.  Now TRexx Pro
  includes commands for the following programs/devices:

	- Switcher
	- Genlock Utility
	- LightWave 3D
	- ToasterPaint
	- Personal TBC-II
	- AmiLink/CI
	- Pixel 3D
	- Art Department Pro
	- EVE (a LightWave to DCTV animation conversion program, see below)
	- DQ-Taco animation controller
	- BCD-2000A animation controller
	- Mediaphile video editing system
	- PC-VCR
	- Sony V-Box/Deck

  This also means that you can create command sets for just about any
  program/device that you have.  No other program offers such flexibility.

- All Switcher commands have been broken out of the program and placed in
  an editable file.  This allows you to customize every aspect of the
  commands, from their English equivalent to their type.

- TRexx Professional now comes with a program called the "TRexx Command
  Editor."  This utility allows you to define command sets for any program
  with an ARexx port or any device accessable via the Amiga's
  serial/parellel ports.  TCE has a "point-and-click" interface that is
  simple yet powerful.  It also runs only under Workbench 2.04 or later.

- Another utility included with TRexx Professional is "TIB" (TRexx Image
  Builder).  Since TRexx Pro now reads its images directly from Toaster
  projects a problem was introduced.  TRexx's screen only has space for
  croutons that are 1/4 the size of the one's on the Switcher's screen.
  This means that TRexx has to compress the images from the croutons to fit
  it this limited area.  Compressing that many images can take a while
  (even on fast Amigas), so TIB has been included to read the projects
  ahead of time and create "buffer" images of what the projects contain.
  These buffered images load MUCH faster than regular projects and save
  you a LOT of time in the long run.  TIB will also run only under Workbench
  2.04 or later.

- Also included with TRexx Professional is a program called "EVE."  EVE is
  a LightWave to DCTV animation compiler.  It is small, fast, and gives you
  information about you animations that no other source does.  It, will not,
  however, run under Workbench 1.3 (only 2.04 or later).  In case you
  haven't noticed, you should get Workbench 2.04 (or later).  You really
  should.

- TRexx Professional now has a powerful and unique "Real-Time" mode.  This
  mode allows you to build a script and, at the same time, issue commands
  to ANY program that TRexx Pro supports.  This mode can be turned off or
  on at will, and can even be disabled on a PER COMMAND basis.  As an
  example:  if you click on Program Bus DV1 with Real-Time activated (and
  the Switcher running) the program output will instantly switch to DV1 and
  the command "Set Program bus to DV1" will be added to your script.  This
  is powerful enough, but remember that the "Real-Time" mode is not limited
  to the Switcher.  ANY command for ANY program/device can be made to be
  "Real-Time."  So, if you have the Genlock Utility loaded and click on
  "Program RGB" you will see your Amiga's RGB output on the program bus.


Whew!  If that isn't a lot of typing, then I don't know what is.  If you'd
like even MORE information, please give us a call, we'd be more than happy
to help you out.

We are currently taking orders for TRexx Professional v2.0.  Registered
users will get the first shipment of the program, with other pre-orders
being filled next.  The last to get it will be the distributors and the
dealers.

So if you'd like a copy as soon as possible, send a check or money order
for the full amount (shipping is included, except for overnight, which
varies depending on the courier) to the address at the begining of the
file.

Thank you for reading all of this!

Keith Williams,
President

KludgeCode Software



TRexx Professional is copyright   1991,92 by Keith Williams and KludgeCode
Software.  All rights reserved.  Toaster, Switcher, ToasterPaint, LightWave
3D, Genlock Utility and any other such things are copyright   by NewTek,
Inc.  ARexx is a copyright   by Wm. S. Hawes.  Workbench is copyright   by
Commodore Business Machines.  In case I've forgotten anyone, I'm sorry.
Any other products mentioned are copyright   by their respective
publishers/manufacturers.
