For Release: Immediate

Contact: Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
1200 Wilson Drive
West Chester, PA 19380
Mona Astra Liss or
Amanda K. Griffies
(215) 431-9354


COMMODORE INTRODUCES THE AMIGA 4000 AT WORLD OF COMMODORE SHOW

(Pasadena, CA --- September 11, 1992) --- Commodore Business Machines,
Inc. today introduced the Amiga (R) 4000, the company's revolutionary new
premier multimedia computer. The Amiga 4000 marks the company's most
significant new technology advancement in its Amiga line since the
product's introduction in 1985. In addition to the Amiga 4000, Commodore
announced several other significant product introductions including the
Amiga 600 and 600HD, AmigaDOS TM Release 3 Operating System, A570 CD-ROM
Drive, and AmigaVision TM Professional Authoring System.

James Dionne, President and General Manager of Commodore Business
Machines, Inc., commented, "These product announcements exemplify
Commodore's continued commitment to offer computers with probably the
best price/performance ratios in the computer industry today.   We are
confident that these products, particularly the Amiga 4000, will keep
Commodore at the forefront of multimedia technology and enable us to
continue our aggressive push in the multimedia marketplace."


Amiga 4000

This powerful new machine features Commodore's Advanced Graphics
Architecture TM custom co-processor chip set that enables users to
display and animate graphics in multiple resolutions at up to 256,000
colors from a palette of 16.8 million.  The new hardware features are
driven by AmigaDOS Release 3, the newest version of Commodore's
multitasking operating system, in combination with the machine's main
processor, the Motorola (R) 68040.  While this new version of the
operating system takes advantage of the latest hardware features, it also
maintains backwards compatibility with Amiga software not written
specifically for the Amiga 4000.

The Amiga 4000 will come standard with a 120MB hard drive, 6MB of memory,
a dual speed high-density floppy drive, and CrossDOS which enables users
to read and write to MS-DOS (R) formatted floppy and hard drives.  Other
key multimedia features include: a dedicated slot for video devices;
selectable NTSC scan rate compatibility; four voice dual-channel digital
audio; up to 8 sprites, enabling high speed animations; and full hardware
video overscan.  The Manufacturer's Suggested List Price for the Amiga
4000-040/120 is $3699.00.


AmigaDOS Release 3

The newest version of the Amiga operating system adds several software
enhancements to the previous 2.04 operating system.  Among the new
features are: CrossDOS, allowing access to MS-DOS formatted floppy and
hard drives; a new Installer utility; and a Postscript printer driver.
Additionally, AmigaDOS Release 3.0 offers full support for the new
Advanced Graphics Architecture chip set featured in the Amiga 4000.


Amiga 600

The Amiga 600 is a powerful entry-level computer with a small footprint
and low profile shape, making it very attractive to the home computer
buyer.  The Amiga 600 and 600HD will come with AmigaDOS 2.XX and a
selection of software packages.


A570 CD-ROM Drive

The A570 is a high capacity read-only storage device for the Amiga 500
series. The A570 accepts standard 5" compact discs in a CD caddy and
plays all CDTV (R), audio CD, CD+G, and CD+MIDI discs. It can also read
industry-standard ISO-9660 CD-ROM discs.


AmigaVision Professional

AmigaVision Professional builds and expands on the visual programming
environment used in earlier versions of AmigaVision. The new features
include support for the CDTV player, speed and memory improvements, and
enhancements to the authoring environment. In addition, a freely
redistributable runtime module has been included, enabling flows created
in AmigaVision to be played back without loading AmigaVision.


Commodore Business Machines, Inc., based in West Chester, PA, is the U.S.
subsidiary of Commodore International. The company manufactures and
markets a complete line of Amiga computers and peripherals for the
business, consumer, education and government markets.

Commodore (R) and CDTV (R) are trademarks of Commodore Electronics
Limited. Amiga (R), AmigaDOS, AmigaVision, Bridgeboard and Advanced
Graphics Architecture are trademarks of Commodore-Amiga, Inc. MS-DOS (R)
is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Motorola (R) is a trademark of
Motorola Inc.

                            ###
