The Portal Shell gives you access to the Portal computers using
standard UNIX shells. It offers a wide range of UNIX commands and
services, including shells, electronic mailers, Usenet, gnu software,
development tools, and more.  The Portal Shell is a powerful way to use
our communications and information facilities. It is especially
appropriate for experienced UNIX users, those with unusual
requirements, and anyone who wants a powerful online system.

The Shell also offers the industry's best network connectivity. You get
access to the Internet and services like FTP, Telnet, and IRC. Our
electronic mail gateways communicate with virtually every email
service. Links to SprintNet and other X.25 networks give you local
access from thousands of cities around the world.

Portal is the highest performance, most reliable shell service. Our
unique multiple machine architecture keeps us from getting overloaded,
and makes it easy for us to add additional capacity. We have the
industry's largest and best trained support staff.  The Shell is a
member of Portal's growing family of communications services.

High Performance

The Portal shell machines are fast! RISC machines, lots of memory, huge
disks, high speed modems, and our unique multiple machine architecture
combine to give you the highest possible performance.  Portal is
committed to maintaining the highest quality shell service. If our
machines get overloaded, we'll add more. If our modems are busy, we'll
add more. If our disks fill, we'll add more. This is in sharp contrast
to most other providers, who are unwilling or unable to maintain a top
quality service.

Internet Connectivity

Portal gives you access to the Internet. You can use FTP, Telnet, IRC,
and other Internet services to take full advantage of the net. Our
redundant high-speed links and very high performance routers give you
the best possible performance. Plus, our mail gateways can get your
mail just about anyplace.

Archives

A Portal Shell account puts an immense collection of information at
your fingertips. The Portal Archive - the world's largest UNIX archive
- has many gigabytes of public domain software, documents, and other
information which you can browse. We are constantly updating and
improving the Archive. If you can't find what you are looking on
Portal, you can browse the Internet using Archie and FTP.

Once you find what you need, you have several ways to get it to your
machine:

- download using zmodem, xmodem, kermit, or other file transfer
protocol.

- send it via UUCP.

- retrieve it via tape or diskette.  We'll write the information to
tape and mail it to you.

The Environment

Portal gives you a full-featured UNIX environment. You can choose from
a wide range of shells (csh, ksh, sh, and tcsh), mailers (mail, Mail,
mush, and elm) and the complete collection of gnu software.  Portal has
probably the most extensive Usenet connection in the industry. We

subscribe to every available newsgroup, and keep the around for quite
some time (our news disk array holds several gigabytes). Multiple
complete feeds from major network sites make our delivery fast and
reliable. We offer a number of newsreaders, including rn, trn, nn,
vnews, and readnews.

How to Reach the Shell

You can access your Portal Shell account in several ways:

- direct dial into our high speed modems. Our very high speed modems
support v.32bis, v.42bis, TurboPEP, and most other modem standards.

- through one of our points of presence in the Bay Area. These all
feature the same high speed modems as our direct dial ports.

- with a local call from thousands of cities around the world using
Sprintnet or other packet data networks.

- via Telnet from any Internet site (subject to appropriate use
restrictions).

Pricing

Signup charge:  $19.95
Monthly charge: $19.95/month
Disk space:     $1/megabyte/month  (first 5 megabytes free)
X.25 access:    $2.50/hour, off-peak.  Please call for more details.

If you already have a Portal Online account, you can add Shell for $10.00/month
.


To sign up for a The Portal Shell, just send e-mail to CS@cup.portal.com with
this information:
	- Your desired login name
	- Your desired login shell (sh, csh, ksh, tcsh)


Fine Print

Portal is a registered trademark, and The Portal Shell, The Portal
Archive, and the Portal logo are trademarks of Portal Communications.
UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T. Other trademarks are property
of their respective holders. Copyright (c) 1992 Portal Communications
Company. All rights reserved.


Thanks,
CS/Brian
