                GVP ANNOUNCES THE RELEASE OF IMAGEFX
 
KING OF PRUSSIA, PA., November 1992.  GPV announced that ImageFX(tm) has 
begun shipping.  This feature packed software package, which combines 
the traditional elements of image processing and editing with high-end 
special effects, allows the user to achieve stunning professional 
results on any Commodore Amiga computer.
 
   The 24-bit image manipulation features of this software allow the 
user to achieve spectacular results in image creation, retouching and 
editing.  ImageFX also includes the popular CineMorph(tm) package.  This 
gives the user easy-to-use morphing capabilities, which feature the 
fastest overall rendering speeds of any similar product on the market, 
and produce incredible cinematic quality output.  In addition, ImageFX 
comes with a wealth of image processing tools for color correction and 
manipulation, image analysis, image transformation, and photographic 
adjustments.
 
   Modularity is one of the key features of the ImageFX system.  A 
partial list of modules include those for scanning with the Sharp JX100 
and Epson es300c scanners and displaying on the DCTV and Firecracker 
24.  New modules may be added to support additional scanners, 
framegrabbers, printers and display devices.  ImageFX's unique system of 
external "hook" programs provides for virtually unlimited versatility and 
expansion possibilities with little effort.  Documentation for creating 
the modules and hooks is freely available.
 
   Another important feature of ImageFX is its unique system of image 
memory management, which allows the user to scan images to disk and 
minipulate them at very high speeds with a low memory overhead.  ImageFX 
also offers extra conveniences such as image file format import and 
conversion, a WYSIWYG display, and the most intuitive user interface 
available.  Full ARexx support enables the videographer/photographer to 
create new functions and add them to ImageFX's own menus.
 
   Rusty Mills, an Animation Director at Warner Bros., has worked 
extensively with ImageFX and has this to say about the software system, 
"ImageFX is the most substantial graphics package to support 24-bit 
animation on the Amiga.  The interface is more usable than almost any 
software package I've used on any platform.  ImageFX is a must-have for 
all graphic artists and serious animators."
 
   Developed for use with any Amiga model, ImageFX requires at least 
1/2 MB of chip RAM and 3 MB of fast RAM.  
 
For further information contact Sheila Kirby at (215) 337-8770 ext. 244
 
Great Valley Products is a privately held company that was founded in 
1988.  Today it is the largest third party supplier of peripherals for 
the Commodore Amiga.
 
Great Valley Products, Inc., 600 Clark Ave., King of Prussia, PA  19406 
 
ImageFX and CineMorph are trademarks of Great Valley Products, Amiga is 
a trademark of Commodore Business Machines.  All other products are 
trademarked by their respective companies.
