Commodore Announces the Availability of AmigaDOS Release 2.1

(West Chester, PA --- December 14, 1992) --- Commodore Business
Machines, Inc. (U.S.) today announced that it is now shipping AmigaDOS
(TM) Release 2.1, an updated version of the Amiga's multitasking
operating system. 

Among the new features of AmigaDOS Release 2.1 are CrossDOS, which
provides for the reading and writing of MS-DOS (R) formatted files;
localization of programs to different languages and locales; improvements
to the versatile Preference Editors; enhancements to the printer drivers,
including the addition of a Postscript (R) driver; and an improved
multi-level installation program, allowing quicker and easier configuration
or updating of Amiga (R) system software. 

Current Amiga owners using V2.0X of the operating system can purchase
the AmigaDOS Release 2.1 Upgrade Kit for a Manufacturer's Suggested
Retail Price (MSRP) of $49.00. The kit includes six software disks and a
set of manuals. Systems with 1.3 or earlier versions will require the
AmigaDOS Release 2.1 ROM and Software Upgrade Kit containing ROMs,
six disks and the manual set for an MSRP of $99.00. This upgrade must
be installed by an Authorized Commodore Service Center to maintain the
Commodore Limited Warranty. Both of these upgrade kits can be
purchased through Authorized Commodore Resellers. Users requiring only
the software upgrade may elect to contact CommodoreExpress (TM) at
1-800-448-9987 to purchase the kit.

Commodore (R) and CommodoreExpress are trademarks of Commodore
Electronics Limited. Amiga (R) and AmigaDOS are trademarks of
Commodore-Amiga, Inc. MS-DOS (R) is a trademark of Microsoft
Corporation. Postscript (R) is a trademark of Adobe. 


Commodore Business Machines
1200 Wilson Drive
West Chester, PA 19380
(215) 431-9100

--
Read all administrative posts before putting your post up.  Mailing
list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu.  Comments to zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu.
MAIL ALL COMP.SYS.AMIGA.ANNOUNCE ANNOUNCEMENTS TO announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
