Don't blame the printer if your dot matrix output usually includes
unaesthetic horizontal banding, jaggies, unintended machine-like dot patterns
or colors different from those you saw onscreen. The problem may not be in
the hardware but in the quality of your Amiga printer driver software. To
help your dot matrix printer live up to its full output potential,
INOVAtronics announces TURBOprint 2.0, a new multi-featured Amiga printer
driver package for both color and black & white dot matrix printers.

TURBOprint lets you output monochrome or color text and graphics to the
highest possible resolution of your printer. There is a special half-line
mode that minimizes horizontal banding, while two optional levels of
smoothing algorithm eliminate the stairstep "jaggies" normally associated
with printing Amiga text.

For better image output, TURBOprint provides 14 distinct kinds of rotatable
print dithering (including halftone, TV-like rasterized, and 2 high
resolution Floyd-Steinberg types). For color printing, TURBOprint comes with
tools that provide a large degree of direct control over color correction and
brightness, thanks to a flexible "gamma-curve" tool. It also does exceptional
color seps. Other features built into TURBOprint include the ability to
posterize and print wall-size images in any proportion, and up to 64 pages (8
x 8 pages). You can print selected sections of a screen, or save sections as
IFF files. You can even print out reversed images of graphics -- such as for
printing T-shirts with a transfer ribbon.

TURBOprint is easy to learn and use, works with all Amiga software and has
drivers for almost all current printers. Resident and reset-proof, TURBOprint
can be called up with a single keystroke and lets you interrupt printing as
necessary. Written in the more efficient 68k Assembler, TURBOprint's small
code size and intelligent algorithms allow fast parallel port transfer rates
for printing with minimal delays. Priced at $129.95 and now shipping,
TURBOprint is compatible with any Amiga running Workbench 1.3 or 2.0.
TURBOprint is published by IrseeSoft of Irsee, Germany. To learn more,
contact INOVAtronics, 8499 Greenville Ave. #209B, Dallas, TX 75231; telephone
214/340-4991, fax 214/340-8514.
