Commodore Features New Amiga Systems with Consumer Multimedia
Applications at Consumer Electronics Show

(Las Vegas, NV -- January 7, 1993) Commodore Business Machines,Inc.
will feature and demonstrate a full range of Amiga (R) products at the
Consumer Electronics Show, Booth #10041 in the North Hall, from January
7 - 10, 1993. Commodore's presentation at CES will focus on consumer
multimedia applications and retail kiosk systems. Product demonstrations
will include the new Amiga 1200 and 4000 Advanced Graphics Architecture
TM (AGA) based machines, the entry-level Amiga 600, the Commodore
Dynamic Total Vision (CDTV (R)) player, and a variety of peripheral
products.

Also included in Commodore's booth will be six third-party developers
who will demonstrate a number of sophisticated Amiga multimedia
applications for the home and professional user. The following is a list
of the developers and a brief description of their products to be shown
in the booth.

The Miracle Piano Teaching System TM
The Software Toolworks, Inc.

The Miracle Piano Teaching System TM, the first piano which teaches
users how to play, has 1,000 piano lessons with fun and exciting video
games and popular songs. The system comes with built-in stereo
speakers, AC Adapter, and earphones. The keyboard has velocity-
sensitive keys, a sustain pedal, and full MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital
Interface) compatibility. It can produce over 100 exciting digital music
instrument sounds. The Miracle, with its three components -- software, a
49-key keyboard, and a cable connection to the user's computer -- has a
suggested retail price of $479.95.

G-Lock
Great Valley Products

G-Lock, a very affordable, high quality, versatile genlock rivals even the
most expensive genlocks on the market. Compatible with all Amiga
models, this feature-packed unit is completely software controllable
through its user friendly control panel software, or through ARexx or
the CLI. It can accept two composite on one Y/C input, and provides
composite, Y/C, RGB or YUV outputs at all times. Many adjustable
parameters affecting the incoming video are available and full support is
provided. G-Lock lists in the U.S. for $449.00.

AmiLink
RGB Computer & Video

AmiLink/CII (Consumer Industrial) is a derivative of AmiLink TM, RGB
Computer & Video's professional desktop video editing system. CI offers
cuts and A/B roll editing with the power of professional post-production
systems. It also offers complete interface to the Video Toaster and
control of up to six source and one record Panasonic AG 1960.

Video Director
Gold Disk

Video Director is a videotape editing system for camcorder enthusiasts
and professionals. Familiar VCR style controls make it easy to select and
catalog videotaped moments or "clips." Clips from multiple tapes can be
arranged in any order desired and VideoDirector will control a camcorder
and VCR to produce a cleanly edited tape. VideoDirector includes a
special Smart Cable serial port interface for controlling most popular
VCRs and camcorders.

St. Clair Interactive Communications

St. Clair designs and develops custom interactive kiosk systems for a
broad range of applications, including retail information and
merchandising systems and customer service programs. The company will
feature several of their Amiga-based kiosk systems, such as the K-Mart
(R) Coupon Center, in the booth.

Commodore Business Machines, Inc., based in West Chester, PA, is the
U.S. subsidiary of Commodore International Limited. The company
manufactures and markets a complete line of Amiga computers and
peripherals for the business, consumer, education and government
markets. The company's worldwide installed Amiga user base is presently
almost four million.

Commodore and CDTV are trademarks of Commodore Electronics Limited.
Amiga and Advanced Graphics Architecture are trademarks of
Commodore-Amiga, Inc. G-Lock is a trademark of Great Valley Products.
The Miracle Piano Teaching System is a trademark of The Software
Toolworks. AmiLink is a trademark of RGB Computer & Video. Digital
EditMaster is a trademark of Digital Micronics, Inc. Video Toaster is a
trademark of NewTek, Inc. K-Mart Coupon Center is a trademark of
K-Mart Corporation.

Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
1200 Wilson Drive
West Chester, PA 19380
(215) 431-9100
