Date: Thu, 14 Jan 93 09:58:18 EST
From: sue@cbmvax.commodore.com (Sue West - CATS)
Message-Id: <9301141458.AA05343@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com>
To: harv@cup.portal.com
Subject: Commodore at INFOCOMM

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE


Commodore Features New Amiga Systems with Communication Multimedia
Applications at INFOCOMM Show

(New Orleans, LA -- January 14, 1993) Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
 will feature and demonstrate a full range of powerful Amiga (R) products
at the INFOCOMM Show, Booth #2147, from January 14 - 16, 1993.
Commodore's presentation at the show will focus on "pioneering"
communication multimedia applications featured on the new Amiga 1200
and 4000 Advanced Graphics Architecture TM (AGA) based machines, the
Commodore Dynamic Total Vision (CDTV (R)) player, and a variety of
peripheral products.

Also included in Commodore's booth will be industry leading third party
developers who will demonstrate a number of sophisticated Amiga
multimedia applications for the business professional user. The following
is a list of the developers and a brief description of their exciting
products to be shown in the booth.

IG-Lock
Great Valley Products 
G-Lock, a very affordable, high quality, versatile genlock rivals even the
most expensive genlocks on the market. Compatible with all Amiga
models, this feature-packed unit is completely software controllable
through its user friendly control panel software, or through ARexx or the
CLI. It can accept two composite/I.C. or one Y/C input, and provides
composite, Y/C, RGB or YUV outputs at all times. Many adjustable
parameters affecting the incoming video are available and full support is
provided. G-Lock lists in the U.S. for $449.00.

Video Director
Gold Disk 
Video Director is a complete videotape editing system for camcorder
enthusiasts and professionals. Clips from multiple tapes can be arranged
in any order desired and VideoDirector will control a camcorder and VCR
to produce a cleanly edited tape. Familiar VCR style controls make it
easy to select and catalog videotaped moments or "clips." VideoDirector
includes a special Smart Cable serial port interface for controlling most
popular VCRs and camcorders. No additional hardware is required. 

Art Department Professional TM
ASDG, Inc.
Renowned for its speed and quality, Art Department Professional (ADPro)
is a complete professional image processing system offering total input,
processing and output flexibility with full ARexx programmability. ADPro
reads and writes many image formats, performs thousands of image
processing functions and utilizes JPEG de-compression, as well as prints
24-bit data to Preferences printers. It also includes animation features
and is expandable.

SCALA MM 200
SCALA Inc.
The SCALA Multimedia 200 software allows users to create spectacular
multimedia presentations that can include animations, sound and special
effects for a number of professional business, government and educational
applications.

St. Clair Interactive Communications
St. Clair designs and develops custom interactive kiosk systems for a
broad range of applications, including retail information and
merchandising systems and customer service programs. The company will
feature several of their Amiga-based kiosk systems, such as the K-Mart
(R) Coupon Center, in the booth.  

Commodore Business Machines, Inc., based in West Chester, PA, is the
U.S. subsidiary of Commodore International Limited. The company
manufactures and markets a complete line of Amiga computers and
peripherals for the business, consumer, education and government
markets. The company's worldwide installed user base of Amigas exceeds
three million.

Commodore (R) and CDTV (R) are trademarks of Commodore Electronics
Limited. Amiga (R) and Advanced Graphics Architecture are trademarks of
Commodore-Amiga, Inc. G-Lock (R) is a trademark of Great Valley
Products. Art Department Professional is a trademark of ASDG, Inc.
K-Mart (R) Coupon Center is a trademark of K-Mart Corporation.

Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
1200 Wilson Drive
West Chester, PA 19380
(215) 431-9100
