
LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, U.S.A., 1993 JAN 12 (NB) -- The Winter Consumer
Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Nevada this weekend was the usual
hodge-podge of everything electronic, but if one word had to be used
to describe the show, that word would probably be integration.

The Electronic Industries Association, the group that puts on the
show, said it was the largest show on record. Exhibitors in the
computer area were up 14 percent, and in the Home Theater/Custom
Installation areas 28 percent more vendors came to the show, despite a
recessionary economy. A total of 1,700 exhibitors crowded the more
than 908,000 net square feet of exhibit space at the show.

The electronic gadgets usually at the CES shows were slightly
different this year because many of them were integrated
products, that either work now or will work with a computer and
offer several levels of functionality.

For example, Panasonic demonstrated a new computerized checkbook.
While we've seen computerized checkbooks before that could hold your
checks and maintain your balance, this one also prints the checks and
can interface with a computer running Quicken, a financial software
package from Intuit.

Also introduced by Panasonic was a Digital Answering System
speakerphone with multiple mailboxes ("press 1 for this, press
2 for that"), much like the computer-operated voice mail systems
from The Complete PC and other companies.

Sharp introduced a home fax telephone that will also keep a log
of all calls made on the line to which it is connected and will make
copies. There were also the sunglasses that double as a
projection television viewing screen, and will soon accept and
display output from computers, introduced by Video Vision.

Of course, no consumer electronics show would be complete
without the deep bass reverberation of the stereos, both
automobile and home stereo. However, home theater is gaining
more attention. The Electronics Industries Association released
reports saying home theaters can make a significant
contribution to home-based family activities, with 47 percent
of those surveyed saying it was "extremely important" to find
family entertainment activities and 42 percent surveyed said
activities needed to be ones families can enjoy at home.

Computer and home office products were showing a stronger
presence than ever before at a consumer show, with multimedia
and the pen-based, hand-held computers gaining so much
attention. Prototypes of new "personal" computer devices drew
strong attention and the competition between major players,
such as IBM with its Personal Communicator, Apple/Sharp with
the Newton, and the Casio/Tandy Zoomer products promise
consumers will have many choices.

New digital video cassette recorder (VCR)-type devices based on
compact discs (CDs), instead of cartridges are on the horizon
driven by the marketing genius of Electronic Arts President
Trip Hawkins and his new company 3DO. The 3DO booth
demonstrated the Interactive Multiplayer from Panasonic, which
offers workstation-like graphics manipulation, connects to a
television, is awaiting FCC approval, and is expected to cost
around $700.

Video projectors and huge television screens were displayed.
Game manufacturers Sega and Nintendo had a strong presence at
the show. Sega demonstrated an octagon-shaped disk that lays on
the floor, allows the player to step into it, and instead of
using a joystick allows the players body movements to control
characters in video games.

Nintendo had a new three-dimensional flight game and
strange, reptile-like characters from the Mario Brothers movie,
scheduled for release this May, to greet show attendees.

Specific attendance figures were not available to date, but the
crowds attested to the assertion made by the show's sponsors
that tens of thousands were in attendance.

Even a handheld global positioning system device which relates
the holder's position on the planet within three meters, was
offered by Panasonic. The device has historically been used by
the government and the military and uses signals from three
satellites to pinpoint the holder's position. However, at
$1,195, it really is only for the serious outdoor enthusiast.

(Linda Rohrbough/19930112)
