           GVP ANNOUNCES FREE UPGRADE FOR IMAGEFX/CINEMORPH
 
   King of Prussia, PA., January, 1993.  GVP announced that it has released 
upgrades for its popular software packages, ImageFX and CineMorph.
 
   CineMorph has met with phenomenal success since its release in September, 
1992.  This easy-to-use morphing package was immediately acclaimed for its 
powerful features, which give the user the ability to warp single images, 
morph sequences of multiple images and even full motion video with the 
fastest possible speeds available in any morphing package.  New features
of the upgrade include infinite zoom, regional dissolve, point naming and 
point locking.  New gadgets have been added to the curve editor window which 
allow for greater flexibility.  In addition, AGA support has been added to 
the Render Menu.
 
   ImageFX, which combines the traditional elements of images processing and 
editing with high-end special effects, was released in November, 1992 and 
already promises to set a new standard in visual effects software packages fo
the Amiga.  This powerful software contains all the features of CineMorph 
plus a host of other image processing features.  This new version of ImageFX 
also adds AGA modes to the Amiga preview, and render modes and puts all Amiga
resolutions, including AGA, in the Foreign render module as well.  OpalVision
rendering, more keyboard shortcuts and an improved file requester have also 
been added to an impressive list of features.
 
   These upgrades, coming so soon after the release of ImageFX and CineMorph,
reflect GVP's ongoing commitment to providing professional quality video 
processing and editing software at an affordable price.
 
   Gary Gehman, president of Magic Bullet Communications, has this 
observation about ImageFX, "I believe that it is the single most important 
graphics program for the Amiga in five years" he says.  "This is of 
considerable interest to the average Amiga hobbyist, but it is a revolutionar
and highly profitable windfall to the people who actually use their Amigas to
make a living."
 
   Registered owners of ImageFX are recieving their free upgrades already.
 
   GVP is a privately held company that was founded in 1988.  Today it is the
world's largest third party supplier of peripherals for the Commodore Amiga. 
For more information contact Sheila Kirby at (215) 337-8770 extension 244.
 
