Press Release
---------------


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - MicroMiga announces new Amiga publication.


MicroMiga, known best as a mail order vendor specializing in the Amiga
line of personal computers since 1988 is announcing today we will start
publishing a new Amiga specific magazine.  The first issue is scheduled
for May of this year and subsequent issues will be released quarterly.

This new magazine titled "Amiga Explorer" will focus on the Amiga
marketplace, spending most of its pages on what's available and new to
the Amiga community.  It will have in depth reviews of software and
hardware, columns on how best to use your Amiga and the software you
purchase.  Several technical articles covering C programming  and ARexx
are also planned.

We will also be spending a great deal of time "Exploring" the online
community including commercial online services, BBS's and
Shareware/Public Domain Software. Included in every issue will be several
"Spotlight" articles where we will do in depth reviews of Shareware
software, interviews with the developers and also spotlight different
BBS's around the country.

Just like every other magazine, we will have the usual reviews of all
the popular hardware and software plus the usual new products listings.
What will be different is our commitment to the shareware and
telecomputing public.

In the weeks to come we will release an outline of the planned articles
for 1993 and into 1994.  In this outline we will discuss in great detail
the direction we plan to take Amiga Explorer and we hope you will take
the time in the next few weeks to contact us with your ideas, suggestions
or submissions.

Amiga Explorer will be your magazine, it will be completely designed from
the ground up based on your input.  If you want something or don't like
something let us know.  We will be available to you via several online
systems including Internet/Usenet.

Our columns and reviews will be written by people like yourself, people
you know, people you correspond with right here on the net.  In other
words, people who know what the Amiga is all about.

The first issue will be available to all those who ask free of charge,
simply write us at the address below to request your free issue.  Future
issues will be available for only the cost of mailing, or ask your local
dealer to carry it free of charge.

Much help is needed in the development of Amiga Explorer.  If you are
interested in helping out, please contact us at the address below.

MicroMiga will no longer be doing any mail order sales, instead focusing
all available resources on the publication.


John Ferguson
MicroMiga General Manager
Editor Amiga Explorer

 Contact: John Ferguson

 Address: Amiga Explorer
          P.O. Box 1898
          Spring Valley, CA  91979-1898

Internet: ferg@cup.portal.com

   Phone: (619) 670-3161
     Fax: (619) 670-9732
