Xref: portal comp.sys.amiga.games:28460 comp.sys.amiga.misc:29472
Path: portal!cup.portal.com!BConrad
From: BConrad@cup.portal.com (Brian Douglas Conrad)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.games,comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: MAXIS IS GOING BYE-BYE
Message-ID: <75275@cup.portal.com>
Date: Tue,  9 Feb 93 21:22:12 PST
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
References: <C1r8tA.11u@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu>
  <93032.142752MBS110@psuvm.psu.edu> <1kk5jlINNdo9@ub.d.umn.edu>
  <1FEB199319521819@loyola.edu>
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Lines: 55
Portal-Bytes: 2723
Portal-Location: 16155.3.8481.129

Joe Scirica, Maxis Vice President of Product Development writes:

I would like to clear up some of the confusion recently discussed
about Maxis' development policy concerning Amiga development.  It all
boils down to economics.  Our DOS sales are running around 100 times
our Amiga sales.  It costs us nearly as much to port a game to the
Amiga as it does to port it to DOS or Mac.  The cost of goods (the
cost of all of the materials in the retail package) run about the
same for each platform.  In order for Maxis and other
developer/publishers to stay in business we must have a sufficient
yield on our investment in order to design/develop future products,
yes, that means the P word (profit).  Without funds to re-invest in
product development, we will not be here next year, and we intend to
stay around a long time.

I would like to ask each of you to answer a simple question.  If you
had $1,000 to invest in your choice of two mutual funds, one
returning 1% interest, and the other returning 10% interest, which
fund would you invest in?  Of course you would invest in the fund
returning 10%.  When using your own money to invest you look for the
highest return on investment.  Managing a company is not much
different.

Until just recently, Maxis supported the Amiga platform, even if it
meant that our profits from the Amiga were less than desirable.  We
did this for two reasons.  The first is that we like the Amiga, its a
great machine, and we want to support the many people who have made
the investment in an Amiga and Maxis products.  Second is there has
been a fair market in Europe for Amiga games, but that too is
changing.

As far as A-Train goes, we know that it is not the product for
everyone, but many people like the game, and so we put it on the
Amiga.  It was developed by Artdink in Japan and is a very popular
game over there.  We are also finishing up on the A-Train
Construction Set (it almost did not make it past the ROI
analysis-actually it lost, but I prevailed) that allows the user to
custom design his/her own scenario.  The Construction Set is the last
product that we will develop for the Amiga for the foreseeable
future.  Unless the Amiga market turns around and becomes a viable
platform for us again, we will not develop future products for the
Amiga.

Please notice that I did not mention the other P word (piracy), it is
just as much of a problem on the other platforms as it is on the
Amiga.  Our creative writing department, Michael Bremer and Tom
Bentley wish to thank those of you writing kind words about their
documentation, they are both out buying larger hats right now.

Joe Scirica
Vice President Product Development
Maxis
2 Theatre Square
Suite 230
Orinda, CA 94563
