                    Moonlighter Software Development, Inc.
                     3208-C E. Colonial Drive, Suite 204
                           Orlando, Florida  32803
                            Phone: (407) 384-9484
                             FAX: (407) 384-9391

                       The Proper Tools for the Job!
                  From Moonlighter Software Develpment, Inc.


Ami-Back Tools v1.0

Moonlighter is pleased to bring you Ami-Back Tools, a collection of the best
disk utilities available to keep your Amiga's floppy and hard drives
performing flawlessly.  Have you ever accidentally erased an important file?
Have you noticed your drives slowing down after heavy usage?  Have you
noticed how hard drive problems occur at the most inconvenient times?
Over 90% of all sick hard drives can be cured with the right tools: Ami-Back
Tools!  Ami-Back Tools can diagnose and treat small problems before they
become big disasters: the GP, a sophisticated disk optimizer ensures your
data is stored as efficiently as possible, and the Disk Analyst examines
your disks for potential problems and repairs them when the need arises.
911-Recovery recovers data from crashed disks, and the Reviver recovers
deleted files in place, while the Antiseptic clears your disk of everything.
The Lab Test lets you check and compare checksums for file corruption and
virus protection.  All these programs are tied together by the Administrator
which allows you to set up, schedule, and perform any or all of these tests
with unmatched ease and flexibility.

Ami-Back Tools represents over a year of development from concept to
completion.  The suggestions of hundreds of Amiga users were considered and
evaluated as the features of Ami-Back Tools went from idea stage to software
code.  High quality was always a priority during the design of Ami-Back
Tools.  Amiga users have been waiting for a professional and reliable disk
utilities package since the Amiga's introduction, and Ami-Back Tools is our
answer to these users' wishes.  We are certain you will find this package
unmatched by any other utilities package on the market today.

Here is just a partial list of features:

GP (General Practitioner)
 Optimizes disks for maximum performance.
 Offers choice of file, directory, or free space optimization.
 GP was written to be fast and safe.  Optimizing your hard drive no longer
  needs to be a potentially dangerous task.  If hard disk operation is
  interrupted for any reason, you may still recover the file system.

Disk Analyst
 Finds and fixes problems with disk structure that prevents normal disk
  operation.
 Allows you to undo changes made to the file system.

Reviver
 Recovers deleted files in place.
 Recovers files lost through Quick Format of disk.

Lab Test
 Performs CRC (Cycle Redundancy Check) of all files; allows storage of CRC
  database for later comparison.
 Allows comparison with database to check for corrupted file data due to
  viruses, etc.
 Displays or prints (to the PRT: device or file) the disk tree structure.

911-Recovery
 Recovers files from crashed filesystem to floppy or other AmigaDOS
  filesystems.
 Works like a selective backup without going through AmigaDOS to recover
  lost files.

Antiseptic
 Wipes all evidence of information from a disk.
 Will prevent the recovery of information from your hard drive-ideal for
  security concerns.
 Wipes information from disk free space, and prevents recovery of
  information from free space.

Ami-Sched II
 Schedules both Ami-Back (not included) and Ami-Back Tools.
 Schedule Ami-Back Tools events (such as the Analyst) to examine your file
  system and repair it while you sleep.
 Supports any number of events over any time frame.
 Ami-Sched II is small and system resource efficient.

Miscellaneous
 Supports all standard Amiga file systems including AmigaDOS 3.0 directory
  caching file system.
 Optional caching mode will cache read/write operations for maximum speed.
 Allows multiple screen types including Workbench and custom; creates and
  visits public screens.
 Allows multiple verification prior to any program update mode.
 Allows mapping out bad blocks.
 Password protection prevents any accidental updates to the file system.
 Complete reporting of background operations are made in the log file.
 Saves RDB information in case the information is lost or overwritten.
 Complete support of the Amiga's color palette.
 Arexx support.
 And much, much more!

System Requirments
 Any Amiga running WorkBench v1.3 or higher.
 512k Memory

List Price: $79.95

Competitive Upgrade Offer -- If you own any other Amiga disk utility.  Simply
  send us your original disk plus $39.95 + S&H ($5.00 US, $10.00 Outside US).
  All orders outside the U.S. must be paid for by money order or credit card.
  Florida residents add 6% sales tax.

For further information contact:

  Moonlighter Software Development, Inc.
  3208-C E. Colonial Drive, Suite 204
  Orlando, Florida  32803

  Phone: (407) 384-9484
    Fax: (407) 384-9391
    BBS: (407) 292-6080
