From: sue@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com (Sue West - CATS)
Message-Id: <9303251536.AA13844@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com>
To: harv@cup.portal.com
Subject: Commodore (U.S.) Extends Power Up Promotion

Commodore Announces Extension of "Power Up" Promotion 

(West Chester, PA -- March 15, 1993) Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
(U.S.)  today announced it is extending the "Power Up" savings program
for the Amiga (R) 4000 and 1200 computers through May 2, 1993. The
Power Up promotion offers purchasers Commodore's two newest Amiga
systems and selected third party software packages at substantial cost
savings. 

The Amiga 4000-040/120 plus ASDG's Art Department Professional and
Electronic Arts' DeluxePaint IV AGA are available for a Manufacturer's
Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $2693. The Amiga 1200 plus SoftWood
Inc.'s Final Copy 1.3 TM and Electronic Arts' DeluxePaint IV AGA are
available at an MSRP of $599. These suggested retail prices represent a
savings of $1500 and $600, respectively, if these items are purchased
separately. Program details and product specifications are attached.

"The tremendous savings and quality software offered through the Power
Up program has been met with much enthusiasm by our resellers and
potential customer base," commented James Dionne, president and general
manager of Commodore Business Machines, Inc. "Sales of the Amiga 1200
and 4000 systems have exceeded our initial expectations and extending the
promotion will enable us to meet the growing demand for the products." 

Commodore Business Machines, Inc., based in West Chester, PA, is the
U.S. subsidiary of Commodore International Limited. The company
manufactures and markets a complete line of Amiga computers and
peripherals for the business, consumer, education and government markets.
The company's worldwide installed user base of Amiga computers is
presently almost four million.

Amiga (R), AmigaDOS and Advanced Graphics Architecture are trademarks
of Commodore-Amiga, Inc. Art Department Professional is a trademark of
ASDG. DeluxePaint is a trademark of Electronics Arts. Final Copy is a
trademark of SoftWood Inc. MS-DOS (R) is a trademark of Microsoft
Corporation. Motorola (R) is a trademark of Motorola Inc. CrossDOS is a
trademark of CONSULTRON.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Power Up Program Details

Promotion pricing is available at the time of purchase through a
Commodore Authorized Reseller from January 1 to May 2, 1993.

Purchasers must submit their completed warranty card and a copy of
proof of purchase to Commodore by June 30, 1993 to receive the
applicable software packages.

The software will be shipped to the purchaser by Commodore free of
charge within six to eight weeks from receipt and verification of the
warranty card and proof of purchase information.
