Date: Tue, 20 Apr 93 10:28:55 EDT
From: sue@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com (Sue West - CATS)
Message-Id: <9304201428.AA05753@cbmvax.cbm.commodore.com>
To: harv@cup.portal.com
Subject: Commodore and NewTek Join Forces



For Immediate Release

                
COMMODORE AND NEWTEK JOIN TO MARKET 
AMIGA 4000 AND NEW VIDEO TOASTER 4000 

(West Chester, PA --- April 18, 1993) Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
is pleased to announce it is participating in a joint marketing effort with
NewTek, Inc. built on bringing powerful, cost effective technology to the
video marketplace. The vast acceptance of Commodore's Amiga (R)
computer and NewTek's Video Toaster TM as quality video products is
unprecedented. The newly formed alliance coupled with NewTek's
announcement of the Video Toaster 4000 will encourage further
widespread acceptance of the Amiga and Toaster within the rapidly
growing personal video production industry.  

"Commodore and NewTek share a mutual commitment to offering video
producers state-of-the-art video products. Given our shared interests in
providing advanced technology and product support at a reasonable cost,
our marketing partnership was inevitable," commented James Dionne,
Commodore President and General Manager. "Commodore is pleased to
join NewTek as they announce the Video Toaster 4000 and we look
forward to working with them to put the power of personal video
production in the hands of video users across the U.S." 

Since its introduction in 1985 the Amiga has been recognized as the most
video oriented microcomputer. Every Amiga is equipped with an array of
video features such as NTSC horizontal scan rate compatibility, interlaced
and non-interlaced video modes, RGB analog signal and overscan
capabilities. A dedicated video slot provides easy access to the Amiga's
video bus for integrating performance enhancing devices like NewTek's
Video Toaster.

In September of 1992 Commodore introduced the Amiga 4000 featuring the
Advanced Graphics Architecture TM (AGA) chip set. AGA greatly
enhances the computer's videographics capabilities by enabling users to
display and animate graphics in selectable resolutions at up to 256,000
colors from a palette of 16.8 million.

"With new Video Toaster 4000 features such as real-time playback of
LightWave 3D animations, we're taking full advantage of the AGA chip
set," said NewTek President Tim Jenison. "Some of the Toaster 4000's
new video effects have never been possible on any system at any price
before. Technological breakthroughs at Commodore and NewTek have
made them possible on a complete system that costs less than $5000."

The Video Toaster 4000 hardware includes a real-time effects engine and
two 16.8 million color broadcast-quality frame buffers. Also included is an
advanced character generator, four input switcher, a broadcast-quality
paint program, color effects, a 3D modeling and animation program, and a
luminance keyer. "The idea behind the Toaster is to give ordinary people
all of the tools they need to produce television at an affordable price,"
said NewTek Vice President Paul Montgomery. "Toaster 4000, with its
hundreds of new features, is the next stage in the personal video
production revolution."

Commodore Business Machines, Inc., based in West Chester, PA, is the
U.S. subsidiary of Commodore International Limited. The company
manufactures and markets a complete line of Amiga computers and
peripherals for the business, consumer, education and government markets.
The company's worldwide installed user base of Amiga computers is
presently almost four million.

Amiga and Advanced Graphics Architecture are trademarks of
Commodore-Amiga, Inc. Video Toaster is a trademark of NewTek, Inc.

Commodore Business Machines
1200 Wilson Drive
West Chester, PA 19380
(215) 431-9100
