 Astral Net (TM)
 
         Astral Net is  an inexpensive networking system that allows you to
 connect many AMIGA computers together. The system achives its low cost by
 using serial links, that plug into the serial port of any AMIGA compatable
 computer, rather than expensive eithernet boards. 
         Once connected each AMIGA becomes an independent node on the Network.
 Each computer can access files, rexx ports, or databases. Each computer on the
 network can use devices such as printers, disk drives, ram drives, and modems
 connected to any other computer on the network.
         The system also gives you the ability to send messages between the
 computers on the network, engage in conferences, or to copy files directly
 from any computer to any other computer saving you the time you would have
 spent copying files to and from floppy disk. 
 
         The Astral Net software allows you to access AREXX ports on other
 computers as local ports. This opens up the ability to control programs with
 AREXX ports across the network without having to buy network specific
 software. One application here might be controlling a Video Toaster from
 another machine with timed scripts or sharing a common database across the
 network with SuperBase4.
 
         Astral Net can be purchased at your local dealer or directly from ABS
 Designs. Please check with your local dealer! Order before September 1, 1993
 and save $20 off the MSRP of $99.95. ABS Designs will offer the starter kit
 for an introductory price of $79.95. Order Today! See your local dealer or
 send $79.95 plus $4 shipping to ABS Designs POB 44384, Atlanta, GA.
 30336-1384. COD orders add $5.00 
 
         Additional network connectors and software for adding an extra
 computer to your network will be available on June 1st for $59.95. 
 
 Astral Net
 
 * Execute Commands to start program on remote computers
 
 * Control Programs or devices across the network through REXX ports
 
 * Send messages to any computer on the network (Operator messages in beta)
 
 * Networks many AMIGA computer together
 
 * Allows easy access to printers connected to other computers
 
 * Access AREXX ports across the network
 
 * Select each device as networked or private for security
 
 * Easy file transfers between machines
 
 * Free minor updates and bug fixes for 1 year
 
 * Garanteed Upgrade path as faster network system become available
 
 * Configured through a standard preference program
 
 * Automatically reconizes all machines on the network so there are no
   'node list' tables to maintain
 
 * Supports adaptive routing where multiple connections exist on the same 
   machine. Multiple paths to the same machine are not supported in the
   first release
 
         Astral net automatically reconizes all machines on the network so
 their are not "node list" files to maintain. The network system supports
 adaptive routing where multiply lines exist on one machine. However multiple
 routes to the same machine are not supported in the first release.
 
         NOTE:  Astral Net is in BETA and is not being shipped commercially.
 Astral Net was orginally advertised as the OLYMPUS NETWORK and has ben renamed
 and delayed so we can provide an extinsive beta test prior to commercial
 release. If you would like to become an ABS beta testor please write to ABS
