
quit
Press Release

   For Immediate Release

   For More Information Contact:

   Heifner Communications, Inc.
   4451 I-70 Drive NW
   Columbia, MO  65202
   (800) 445-6164  (voice)
   (314) 445-0757   (fax)
   
   
             PEGGER, Automated JPEG Image Compression Software

(Columbia, MO -- June 7, 1993)

   Heifner Communications and Express-Way Software are announcing a
new software utility for the Amiga line of personal computers and
Video Toaster workstations.  PEGGER is a fully integrated JPEG utility
based on the compression algorithm from the Joint Photographers Experts
Group.  PEGGER allows programs that don't support JPEG images to work
automatically with them.  Everything from 3D animation systems to
graphic and multi-media programs greatly benefit from the enormous
savings in hard drive space PEGGERS JPEG compression provides.

   PEGGERs Snoop capability automates the JPEG processing for programs
that don't support JPEG, such as Electronic Arts Deluxe Paint AGA or
the NewTek Video Toaster, so they can load or save JPEG files. PEGGER runs
seamlessly in the background, compressing and decompressing files as needed.
Your 100 MB 24 bit or HAM8 library can be compressed to under 10 MB and your
applications won't even know it. A 50 MB hard drive can now hold more than
1000 frames of high resolution 24 bit files instead of just 60 or 70 frames.

   PEGGER does it's job in just seconds, we have optimized the JPEG code for
the Amiga. The JPEG compress, decompress, and selection of files to process
run completely independent of each other.  This allows both compression
and decompression of files at the same time, with the ability to
adjust the priority of each.  A cue list of files awaiting processing
is maintained so that you can select additional files to process
while PEGGER is busy in the background processing your previous selections.
In addition to selecting individual files to process, entire directories
of files can be set up to be batch processed.

   You can have PEGGER execute an ARexx script prior to and after JPEG
processing of a file.  This allows the integration of PEGGERs powerful
batch processing capabilities with other applications which support
ARexx.  For example, using an ARexx script to load a frame buffer
and activate a single frame recorder after JPEG decompression of an image.

   The JPEG processing is performed on a small portion of the file at a
time, so PEGGER doesn't need megabytes of RAM to hold the entire image
before processing can begin. A 2000 by 3000 pixel 24 bit image takes
almost 30 MB of system RAM to JPEG compress or decompress with current
Amiga programs.  With PEGGER, less than 1 MB of system RAM is needed.

   Designed to run in the background, and when idle, uses few system
resources.  Even if your computer were to crash while PEGGER was
processing files, when restarted, PEGGER will continue processing
the files where it was interrupted.

   Features:

      ARexx support.

      Support for 24 bit IFF, DCTV, and HAM8 images.
      
      PEGGER can process images up to 32000 pixels wide using less than
      4 MB of system RAM.

      AmigaDOS 2.0 & 3.0 compatible.
      
      Follows all AmigaDOS programming guidelines.
      
      Adjustable priority for JPEG compression and decompression.
      
      Pegger is designed to multi task in the background using minimal
      system resources so a 3D rendering or graphics program can also
      run at the same time.

      Snoop feature allows PEGGER to compress the output of your 3D
      rendering or graphics program into a JPEG file automatically.

      JPEG code has been optimized for speed.

      PEGGER can be used with the appropriate ARexx script to single frame
      record images directly from JPEGed sequential files.
      
      
   PEGGER is a low cost alternative to a new expensive large capacity
hard drive for animation or color graphic workstations.

   Ship Date: Late July
   List Price: $95.00

Deluxe Paint IV AGA is a trademark of Electronic Arts
Video Toaster is a trademark of NewTek, Inc.
Amiga is a trademark of Commodore Business Machines, Inc.
