Here's some news from S. Boberg, author of LhA, concerning the next
version's release & features, and status of current pending registrations.
Captured from his postings to Usenet this date.
Harv
----

  As those who have paid me the registration fee in order to become
a registered user of my `LhA' program have noticed, there is currently
a severe delay before delivery of the promised disk and keyfile. Some
have been waiting for up to six months, and a few even more. For a
person who has sent his registration fee, and received no disk /
keyfile within the promised two to eight weeks, without explanation
for the delay, it may be easy to draw the conclusion that I don't
intend to send anything, ever. This is not the truth.

  The overall registration response have been overwhelming, and I
currently have approximately 300 outstanding orders. These will be
dispatched as quickly as my compulsory military service permit.
During the last two months, I have been very busy (haven't been at
home for more than five days, total), so I haven't been able to
dispatch one single order ( :( ). Actually, I haven't had very much
real free time at all since I was inducted to the army in November.

  All EMail to boberg@lysator.liu.se and this address arrive safely,
but I am not able to respond to most of your messages. My mailbox
is flooded to the brim.

  I continue to dispatch orders as fast as I can, and will try to
persuade the powers-that-be that I need some extra free time for
this. Either way I have a three-week "vacation" in July, so by
August, most people should have received their copy. This has top
priority, since knowing that you have 300+ angry customers waiting
for what they've paid for is extremely unsettling.

  If the above posting is a bit incoherent or messy, it's because
it was written in a haste. Hope you get the message anyway.

  Finally; Thank you very much, all of you who have registered your
copy of LhA. I appreciate your honesty a GREAT deal. I owe you a
lot! Thanks.

  Yours,
        Sgt. Stefan Boberg

--
Stefan Boberg, Amiga programmer - Team 17 Software / LhA Development.
 InterNet: boberg@lysator.liu.se         boberg@team17.adsp.sub.org
    "we may not get there, but boy do we care..." - FGTH 12ZTAS7
-----
Xref: portal comp.sys.amiga.misc:35041 comp.sys.amiga.applications:16781
  comp.sys.amiga.datacomm:14680 comp.sys.amiga.advocacy:56829
Path: portal!sdd.hp.com!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!g
 md.de!rrz.uni-koeln.de!unidui!uniol!caty!cbmger!cbmehq!cbmswe!team17!boberg
From: boberg@team17.adsp.sub.org (Stefan Boberg)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc,comp.sys.amiga.applications,
 comp.sys.amiga.datacomm,comp.sys.amiga.advocacy
Subject: ** LhA V2.0 Progress report
Message-ID: <boberg.03s6@team17.adsp.sub.org>
Date: 13 Jun 93 19:29:30 GMT
Organization: Team 17 Software Inc.
Lines: 110
X-NewsSoftware: GRn 1.16f (10.17.92) by Mike Schwartz & Michael B. Smith
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 4618
Portal-Location: 17265.3.5004.1


  I have received a lot of email lately regarding the release of
LhA V2.0. I post a response here in the hope that it will reduce
the mail flow to my site (my mailbox is already flooded to the
brim).

  Anyway, development of LhA V2.0 has been a bit slow during the last
few months, since I am currently doing my compulsory military service,
which leaves little free time. It is now in Alpha stage, with most
new features implemented, and will soon enter Beta testing stage (July),
and I hope to have a thoroughly tested version available by the end of
August or at the beginning of September, when I "quit" the army and
continue my studies at the university.

  For those interested, here is an outline of the major features of
LhA V2.0.

  o Better and faster compression and decompression. Compresses better
    than all currently available compression programs for any platform.
    (Including [but not limited to] PKZip V2, ARJ V2, SQZ V1, and
    Shrink V1).

  o Very effective I/O. Asynchronous mode reads the next chunk of data
    while the current is being processed. Direct disk I/O permits
    archiving of disk images like with DMS, but is not limited to
    80-cylinder devices.

  o Direct archive I/O and on-the-fly formatting permits very speedy
    creation of archives on floppy by bypassing the filesystem (like
    Quarterback and AmiBack does, but with the bonus of being able
    to use the disk just like any ordinary FFS formatted disk!). This
    yields up to a threefold increase in archiving speed, and also
    eliminates the formatting step, since you can create an archive
    on an unformatted disk!

  o Archives and restores filesystem links.

  o Very advanced multiple-volume archiving support (supports
    incremental backups, direct I/O, multiple drives, file generations,
    archive catalogs, and more). This coupled with the powerful backup
    GUI means that LhA can be used as a very efficient and fast
    backup-program.

    [In a quick test with AmiBack V2 with compression on the full set
    of LhA sources and revision control files and binaries (more than
    8MB of data) the AmiBack backup used 9 disks, and the LhA backup
    5 disks - and yet LhA was faster!].

  o Dozens of new switches and options to simplify common operations.

  o New and more easy-to-use command line syntax (verbose options,
    very powerful pattern-matching and more)

  o Network support (with OS3.1)

  o Handles all old .lha and .lzh archives

  o Can be run from Workbench, and every aspect of operation can be
    controlled via ToolTypes and project/tool icons.

  o AppIcon and AppWindow modes.

  o New modes of interactivity; Console mode (normal mode, LhA V1.x
    works in this mode), Console+GUI mode (queries / filerequests
    done through requesters, arguments and options supplied from
    command line), WB mode (limited GUI), and full GUI mode (like
    Stuffit/Compressor Pro on Macintosh). Also, a special backup
    GUI that is designed to be used for HD backups is planned.

  o GUI and main program upgradable and customizable by means of
    modifying the "Perspective" [private OOP project] resource
    file. This means LhA can be expanded to accept other archive
    formats such as ZIP or ARJ transparently.

  o Completely localized even when running OS2.04

  o Compatible with all KickStart revisions from 1.2 and up (but many
    special features are only available when running OS2.04 or later).

  o Compatible with all 680x0 processors, with special 68020/030 and
    68040 versions.

  o Encryption

  o Icon support.

  o ... And much, much more

  All these features may or may not be in the initial release, but
all of them are more or less implemented in the current alpha. However,
I may choose to leave some features out in favor of an earlier release
date (in the above list, Encryption is the only that may not be in
the initial release).

  The program will be released as shareware (preliminary US$20), with
a freely distributable evaluation version to go with it. Just like
previous releases of LhA. I may choose to charge some small additional
fee for some special expansion modules - I'll decide later.

  There will also be local registration sites in USA, Australia, Germany
and Sweden, in order to get the administration load off myself, in favor
of programming (and my university studies).

  Regards,
           Stefan

--
Stefan Boberg, Amiga programmer - Team 17 Software / LhA Development.
 InterNet: boberg@lysator.liu.se         boberg@team17.adsp.sub.org
 "My voice is the last that you will ever hear - don't be alarmed".
