FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
                GVP maintains Amiga vitality with new ImageFX
 
             VERSION 1.5 TO TAKE IMAGE PROCESSING WORLD BY STORM
 
        King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, June 30, 1993 - GVP announces the 
imminent release of a major upgrade to their renowned image processing 
package, ImageFX.  Already described as "the most substantial graphics 
package to support 24-bit animation" by prominent Warner Bros. animation 
director Rusty Mills, ImageFX has now been further enhanced to meet the 
changing demands of photographers, graphic artists, animators, educators, 
scientists, and hobbyists.
 
        For Mills, ImageFX is "more usable than almost any software 
package... on any platform."  Now, with the upcoming July release of the 
newest version designated 1.5, ImageFX attains new heights in flexibility, 
raw power, and value.
 
        Highlights of this comprehensive upgrade include faster global 
operation, multilevel UNDO, macro recording, and aspect lock. In addition, 
users can expect improved real-time feedback for all painting tools, new 
drawing tools, and more crazy effects.
 
        Moreover, there are dozens of new loader and saver modules, extended
support for the new Epson 600 & 800 series scanners, plus framegrabbers like 
the VLAB and PP&S 256.  In an move to stretch compatibility, ImageFX 1.5 now 
directly supports the Opalvision and Retina display boards.  Finally, ImageFX
1.5 pushes the envelope of print quality to the limit, as further 
enhancements were made to the already-excellent output routines.
 
        If that weren't enough, the accompanying manual addendum for version 
1.5 provides clear explanations of changes and features, plus many existing 
chapters have been expanded and revised, making ImageFX 1.5 incredibly easy 
to use.
 
        These are just some of the changes made to the program that embodies 
its slogan, "Truly Integrated Image Processing."  As a tribute to this
integration, Byrd's Eye Software, makers of the very hot ToasterVision 
package for NewTek's Video Toaster, have announced ToasterFX; an ingenious 
compliment to ImageFX that allows it to load, save, and display directly to 
and from the Toaster with professional ease!  Furthermore, ToasterFX modules 
allow ImageFX to actually preview and paint within the Toaster as well!
 
        With all of the above, plus much more, one might expect to pay dearly
for such an upgrade.  However, Great Valley Products will continue to support
their "power to the people" approach by offering this new version to 
registered users at only $29.95.  Version 1.5 is anticipated to ship beginnin
July 15, 1993.  More information will be provided as it becomes available.
 
 
        ImageFX and CineMorph are trademarks of GVP and Nova Design, Inc.  
Amiga is a trademark of Commodore Business Machines, Ltd.  All other 
trademarks are held by their respective companies.
 
        For more information about ImageFX, contact Great Valley Products 
at (215) 337-8770.
 
        For more information on ToasterFX, contact Byrd's Eye Software 
at (512) 835 4811.
