Commodore Business Machines, Inc. The Service Management Group, Inc
CONTACT. Lauren Keffer (215) 431-9478 Rick Stine (410) 992-9975

Commodore Outsources US Support Operation to
The Service Management Group

(West Chester, PA - July 1 , 1 993) Commodore Business Machines, Inc. and
The Service Management Group, Inc. today announced an outsourcing
agreement in which the SMG will provide all post sale support to
Commodore resellers, OEMs, VARs and end users. Under the terms of this
agreement, the SMG will administer the U.S. warranty program for
Commodore. Commodore products are currently covered by a one year, parts
and labor warranty provided through Authorized Commodore resellers and
service centers. Beginning today Commodore resellers and service centers
will work with the SMG for all warranty-related activities.

The Service Management Group will also act as the U.S. distributor for
Commodore parts. The agreement is expected to eventually include the
repair and refurbishment of all defective products, repair component
management and end-of-life logistics and materials management.

Commodore also announced that it is unbundling end user product support
offerings effective today. After an extensive study of the current
customer service programs and consultation with Commodore resellers,
service centers and end users, CBM decided to restructure both the
Commodore ExpressTM and Gold Service Programs. These nationally
recognized programs will now be unbundled, permitting Commodore customers
to select the service level that best meets their individual needs. The
Gold Service Programs will be available through the Service Management
Group. Under Gold Service, Commodore end users can select a variety of
coverage options for their Commodore Amiga% systems and the most
popular third-party items purchased for these systems. These coverages
include dealer, depot or on-site support in the United States.

"Commodore end users are a very diverse and demanding group" commented
James Dionne" President and General Manager of Commodore Business
Machines" Inc. "Their support requirements range from self maintenance to
total turnkey support. Commodore is committed to meeting each of these
support requirements with the highest quality service at the lowest cost
to the customer . Outsourcing our support program to the SMG permits us
to not only meet these requirements" but to keep Commodore support among
the best in the industry." The SMG provides customer support through a
network of Authorized Commodore resellers and service centers" as well as
a nationwide service provider.

The SMG will also provide support for both Commodore Authorized resellers
and service centers. These programs are slated to include a technical
help desk" staffed by engineering personnel and specifically trained to
assist dealers and service centers" as well as technical publications and
on-line bulletin boards.

"We are very proud of the work we have done with Commodore over the past
three years" noted Paul Bielski" President of the SMG. "With programs
such as CommodoreExpress Gold Service and the SMG Extended Warranty"
Commodore has been able to meet the needs of the most demanding
customers" while improving quality and reducing cost. We are proud to
have had the opportunity to design" implement and manage these efforts
for Commodore."

The SMG announced that it will be expanding its headquarters operation in
Columbia" Maryland and will add new facilities and personnel in the West
Chester" Pennsylvania and Memphis" Tennessee areas.

Commodore Business Machines" Inc." based in West Chester" PA is a
subsidiary of Commodore International Limited. The company manufactures
and markets a complete line of Amiga computers and peripherals for the
business" consumer" education and government markets.

The Service Management Group" Inc." located in Columbia" MD" is a
professional services and management consulting firm" specializing in
customer service and product support. Chartered as a Service Integrator"
the SMG provides innovative solutions to complex operational and support
problems for manufacturers" distributors" VARs and large end users.

Commodore is a trademark of Commodore Electronics Limited. Amiga is a
trademark of Commodore-Amiga" Inc. CommodoreExpress tm is a trademark of
Commodore Business Machines" Inc.
