[note, this article is Copyright 1993 by Clarinet News and may not be
posted to BBSes or reprinted in newsletters without their permission]
----
ANAHEIM, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A., 1993 AUG 5 (NB) -- The SIGGRAPH
Show was full of surprises from unusual art to actual virtual
reality rides for show goers. Much emphasis was made on kids,
supercomputers, art, and employment opportunities as well.

Games, entertainment, and education were the themes of the
show. Trip Hawkins, president and chief executive officer (CEO)
of 3DO, and chairman of computer game maker Electronic Arts, was
the keynote speaker. Childcare was offered at the show, but
many show goes had their children with them as many of the
booths and exhibits featured games or hands-on activities for
children and adults. An entire portion of the show floor was
given to Sigkids, an exhibit of hands-on computer activities by
and for elementary age children.

But many of the adults were acting like children at play in
virtual reality exhibits from Silicon Graphics Incorporated
(SGI), Evans and Sutherland, and in an area where interactive
art exhibits were displayed. The SGI exhibit was obviously
inspired by the movie Jurassic Park and show goers where
waiting over an hour in winding Disneyland-like lines to enter
a giant box and get a chance to climb into a saddled
Teradactyl. Of the groups who entered the box only three were
allowed to actually ride, but the watchers could see the
virtual scene as well.

Evens and Sutherland offered a chance to ride a virtual hang-
glider through a crowded city-scape. Two hang-glider
simulations were running and show goers were helped into
body-length slings that hung them suspended in
front of a viewing screen. Their faces were then situation
in virtual space. They controlled their movement through the 
space via a hang-glider bar grasped with both hands. Speakers on 
each side of their heads provided the sound. Lines were long to 
ride and riders told Newsbytes the sensation of hang-gliding 
was very real despite the comic book appearance of the city 
landscape through which they flew.

In an area featuring electronic art, show goers could stop at
an electronic confessional to confess their sins. Based on the
confessions of the Catholic church, the automated religion
kiosk, called "Catholic Turing Test" by Gregory P. Garvey of
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, was a thin, shiny, black plastic
structure with a red neon cross at the top and a red kneeling
bench in front. Only large enough for one, an Apple Macintosh
SE and Hypercard were used to create the confessional program
which started by asking how long it had been since you'd been
to confession and gave you the option of typing in a number and
choosing either days, weeks, months, or years. Users selected
sins from a menu and were told at the end of the confession
what type of sins they were and how many "Hail Marys" were
needed for penance.

Next door was a group of tables where show goers who sat down to
relax were eventually bumped and mumbled at by what appeared to
be a giant bowling ball. Called "Adelbrecht" by Momevideo,
Amsterdam, Netherlands designer Martin Spanjaard, the mobile
robot moved around under its own power, bumping into chairs and
people, and changing direction while making beeping and
whirring noises, and mumbling unintelligible speech to show
goers.

The "Neuro Baby" was a monitor in a crib that displayed a pink,
cartoonish, buggy-eyed "baby" face that bounced around on the
screen and responded to attendees who bent down to speak into a
microphone by the crib. Monitors near the crib showed people who
were waiting in line the responses of the baby. The baby laughed, 
cried, said "Hi," rolled its eyes, and even got red-faced mad when 
Newsbytes laughed at it. Lines were long to talk to the baby and it 
was surprising how many people simply yelled into the microphone.
Naoko Tosa of Ogikubo Suginami-Ku, Tokyo said the voice
analysis was performed by a neural network emulator that
converted voice input into "emotional" patterns based on the
wave patterns to which the computer had been "taught" to
respond. A Fujitsu FM Towns multimedia personal computer was
used for the voice analysis, another FM Towns for voice
generation, and a SGI Iris 4D was used to generate the image of
the baby.

"The Flock," by Ken Rinaldo and Mark Grossman of San Francisco,
California, was a room of robotic arms hanging from the ceiling
and extending just a few inches above the floor. The arms responded
to the movement and voice intonation of visitors. The arms were
unusual as they were partially made from the dried branches of vines 
so they appeared to be a strange mix of organic and
electronic material and looked like the limbs of live trees
reaching toward and moving away from visitors. The artists
described the arms as "cybernetic sound sculptures that exhibit
behaviors found in natural groups such as birds, fish, and
bats." Acoustic, kinetic, and infrared sensors on the arms
detected sounds and movements and responded. The exhibit had
visitors talking, waving their hands, and walking around these
strange arms. One of the artists was seen to yell and pull at a
visitor saying, "Don't let it touch you" and explained that the
arms are fragile and could be broken by contact. However it was
difficult with the unexpected movements of the long, jointed
arms to stay out of the way.

Much talk among show goers concerned supercomputers and virtual
reality and the San Diego Supercomputer Center was represented
at the show. The use of supercomputers for complex techniques
such as reconstructing the shape of a fetus from ultrasound
measurements or visualization of global climate research was
emphasized by the San Diego group.

Interactivity was emphasized, not only between people and
computers, but between show attendees. Several locations had
tables and comfortable seating, an international center was
available, and even a jobs and message center was near the show
floor. The jobs board took up two sides of the large four-sized
cubical structure that housed it and every inch of space was
filled with jobs postings. Newsbytes was curious to see if the
jobs postings were for positions wanted, but the jobs were all
help wanted ads for graphics artists, designers, and
programmers who had graphics experience from large companies
such as Avid and Microsoft as well as from small companies.

Attendance figures were not available by press time, but the
show took up most of the huge Anaheim Convention Center and it
was crowded. SIGGRAPH runs until Friday in Anaheim. SIGGRAPH
'94 has been announced by for July 24-29 at the Orange County
Convention Center in Orlando, Florida.

(Linda Rohrbough/19930805/SIGGRAPH, Smith, Bucklin &
Associates, tel 312-321-6830, fax 312-321-6876)
