                              Press Release:

	On  Aug  19 1993, Mand2000 was released by Cygnus Software.  A demo
version  has  been  posted here on portal.  Read on for more information on
this revolutionary fractal program.

						 Cygnus Software
						 33 University Square, #199
						 Madison, WI, 53715
						 USA
						 CygnusSoft@cup.portal.com


                               Introduction:

	Mand2000D  is  the  demo version of Mand2000, a fractal exploration
program  created  by  Cygnus Software.  Mand2000 is a tryware program.  You
can  use  the demo version all you want, give it to your friends, put it on
club  disks  (including  the  disks  of Fred Fish of course) and post it to
bulletin  boards,  as  long  as  you distribute this notice and the example
ARexx scripts with it.

	However, this demo version has had save crippled (saving from ARexx
only, no saving of fractal location information, a maximum save size, and a
stripe  along the right edge of some pictures), and will occasionally bring
up  a  text requester to remind you that it is a demo version.  The release
version  does  save of course, and no annoying requesters will appear.  See
below for more information on ordering your copy.  Additional features that
the  release  version  has  include ARexx documentation, much more help, an
AppIcon, and some extra fractal programs, some with source code.


                               Installation:

	To  install the Mand2000 demo, make a directory on your hard drive,
or  format  a floppy disk, and copy the Mand2000D and TweenPlayer programs,
and Mand2000Demo.help to that directory.  This can be done by just dragging
the  icons  to  the drawer using Workbench.  Then you should copy the ARexx
scripts  to  your rexx:  directory.  Even if you don't program in ARexx you
should  still  copy  these  scripts  because  they  add some very nice menu
commands.   To  copy the ARexx scripts to rexx:  simply double click on the
InstallRexx icon.

	The  TweenPlayer is for playing TweenMovies, which are created from
the  `Make zoom movie' menu in Mand2000D.  Read the online help for further
information.


                               Description:

     What is Mand2000?

     Mand2000  is  meant  to  be  nothing  less  than the finest Mandelbrot
exploration  program  available  on  any  computer.   We  have attempted to
combine  speed,  power  and  simplicity  with  a  few  unique features, all
designed  to  make  it  easy  for  you to discover uncharted regions of the
Mandelbrot and Julia sets.

     What makes Mand2000 different?

     Point  and  click  animated  zooming  is  the  most  intuitive  way of
exploring  the  Mandelbrot  and Julia sets that we could think of.  It's as
easy as using a zoom lens on a camera.  And to the best of our knowledge no
one else uses this method.

     Until  now  the  idea of driving through the Mandelbrot set would have
been  absurd  -  now  it's a reality.  Plug in your joystick and scroll and
zoom your way around the most complex object ever seen.

     Mand2000's multi-pass drawing means that even slower Amigas can take a
test  drive.   It  lets  you see roughly what the final picture is going to
look  like  in  mere  seconds  -  even  for pictures that will take several
minutes to complete.  This allows you to decide almost instantly whether to
keep zooming, or wait for the completed picture.

     Morphing  is  pretty  trendy  today,  but  you'll  probably  still  be
surprised  to  hear  that  Mand2000  has  a  morph option.  Create stunning
animations of the Mandelbrot set smoothly morphing into a circle.

     Mand2000  also  lets  you  make  Mandelbrot  Zoom  movies.  Instead of
wasting  time,  disk  space,  and  memory  to  calculate every frame in the
animation,  Mand2000  optionally calculates the key frames and fills in the
intermediate  frames at playback.  The result:  Movies are calculated about
ten  times faster and take far less space on disk.  And, since Mand creates
postage  stamp  versions  of  your images to use as icons, you can see what
your animations will look like, as soon as you open a directory.

     Once  Mand2000  has  created a series of pictures, and icons for them,
you can use Workbench to create a tiny flip movie to show you what the real
movie  will look like.  Open up the drawer that the frames are in, and size
it so that it's only tall enough for one icon.  Then select `clean up' from
the Workbench menus and all of the icons should line up in a row.  Now size
the  window  so  that  it's a bit wider than the individual icons, and then
click in the body of the horizontal scroll bar.  Workbench will display the
next  icon.   Repeated  clicking  plays  the movie!  Silly?  Probably.  You
decide.

     Another  first  for  Mand2000  is the Show Location menu function.  If
you're  zoomed  way  into the Mandelbrot set, it can be very easy to forget
where  in  the  set you are, and very difficult to find out.  Show location
makes  it  easy  by  opening  up another fractal window and displaying your
location  in it.  You can watch the box move as you zoom and scroll, or you
can  zoom the new window in for a more precise view of where you are.  This
invaluable  feature  makes  it  orders of magnitude easier to find the many
relationships between shapes and locations in the Mandelbrot set, and makes
discovering the relationships between Mandeblrot and Julia sets easy.

     Mand2000   has  a  very  sophisticated  multi-window,  multi-requester
design.   You  can  adjust  parameters  and see the changes in real time as
Mand2000 continues calculating while you use the requesters.  Leave as many
requesters  open  as  you  want.  Leave as many fractal windows open as you
want.

     Mand2000  is  also one the only program we know of that has the tested
capability to zoom in on a Mandelbrot set one thousand times (magnification
of 10 to the three hundredth).  We know it can.  We did it!

     Mand2000  is  fast.   We  won't  claim that it is the fastest, because
there  is  always  some smart kid out there waiting to prove you wrong when
you  make  that  claim.   But  we  believe  that Mand2000's zoom animation,
iteration  count preservation, multi-pass drawing, constant calculating and
other features make it usually the fastest one in real world tests.

     Just  a  few  of  the  other  features  include:   literally dozens of
different  math  routines for accuracies ranging from 16 bit to 1000+ bits,
with  separate  versions  custom coded for 68000, 68020, 68040 and 68881, a
very  comprehensive  on-line  help,  printing,  multi-level  undo, built in
locations  to start you searching, full featured ARexx support and a lot of
other things not available in the demo version.

     These are just some of the more significant and innovative features in
Mand2000.   There  are dozens more, all tightly crafted and seamlessly tied
together  with  a  level  of  quality  you  would expect to pay hundreds of
dollars  for.  We will accept such payments, or will settle for $34.95 sent
to:

     Cygnus Software.
     33 University Square, #199
     Madison, Wisconsin
     53715 USA.

     How do you use Mand2000?

     To  start  using  Mand2000,  the  simplest thing to do is to place the
mouse  over  an interesting area, one of the areas with lots of detail, and
then double click the left mouse button.  The picture will zoom in, placing
the  area  under  the  mouse in the centre of the screen.  You can continue
doing  this as many times as you like, searching for interesting areas.  To
zoom out press `D'.  To scroll the picture around, hold down the left mouse
button and drag, use the arrow keys, the numeric keypad, or a joystick.

     For  full information on how to use Mand2000, read the help associated
with  the  individual menu items.  Just highlight a menu item and press the
help key or press the help key any time a requester is active.

     Mand2000  runs on all Amigas with AmigaDOS 2.0 or higher.  It has been
tested for compatability on Amiga 2000s, 3000s, 4000s, 500s and 1200s, with
68000,  68020,  68030  and  68040  processors,  and should run on all other
models as well.




                                 History:

	Cygnus  Software's first product was MandFXP, the first fixed point
fractal  program  for  the Amiga.  MandFXP was the first fractal program to
run  at usable speeds, even on a 68000.  At the time, in 1986, it was quite
an impressive product and was very popular.

	Cygnus  Software's  next  product was CygnusEd.  CygnusEd is a high
performance  text  editor,  featuring  what  is  probably still the fastest
scrolling and text rendering of any editor on the Amiga today.  Add to that
such  invaluable  features  as  unlimited  undo, etc., etc.  Version 3.5 of
CygnusEd was extensively updated to take advantage of the features that 2.0
has  to  offer.   3-D  gadgets, public screens, the standard file, font and
screen requesters, and the full AGA screen resolutions.  Meanwhile CygnusEd
still  maintains  full  compatibility  with  version  1.3  of the operating
system,  bringing  the  3-D  gadgetry  to  1.3.   CygnusEd  3.5's macro and
configuration  files  and  ARexx  scripts  are  almost 100% compatible with
earlier  versions.  CygnusEd is published by ASDG Inc., and is available in
Amiga  stores  for a suggested retail price of $119.95.  Remember, although
CygnusEd  was  written by Cygnus Software, it is sold through ASDG, and NOT
through Cygnus Software.

	Mand2000 was created with CygnusEd and Aztec C.

	And  now  Mand2000.   A  brand  new  fractal  program, written from
scratch  to  take  advantage  of  all  that the new brand of Amigas have to
offer.   Mand2000  takes  full advantage of floating point units.  It makes
use of the thirty-two bit multiply instructions of the 68020 processors and
above.   And  it  even  has special optimizations aimed specifically at the
68040  processor.   But  while  Mand2000  has  been  optimized to take full
advantage  of  the most powerful processors available for the Amiga, it has
also  been  optimized  for  68000  processors.  All of the calculations run
faster  than  those  in  MandFXP.   Add  to  that  the vastly improved user
interface  with  multiple windows, multi-tasking requesters, animated zooms
and many more functions and you have a clearly superior fractal exploration
program.  And of course it has an ARexx interface.

	We  truly  believe  that  Mand2000  is  the  next  step  in fractal
exploration.

	Enjoy!

	Bruce and Helen Dawson,
	Cygnus Software.
