     It's  a bit late to be posting this, but it has been asked for so
here is the CygnusEd V3.5 Press Release:

                  ***** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE *****
 
          ASDG UPGRADES AWARD WINNING CygnusEd Professional
 
CygnusEd  Professional,  the  award  winning  text  editor  for  Amiga
programmers  and  writers,  has been upgraded to release 3.0.  The new
release,  several  years  in the making, offers complete Workbench 2.0
and  3.0  compatibility,  support for multiple languages, and many new
features and improvements.
 
Madison, WI, May 19, 1993 ----- Long before ASDG Incorporated became a
leading  supplier  of  innovative  color  imaging  solutions  for  the
Commodore  Amiga,  its main software product was CygnusEd Professional
(CED),  the  high  performance  text  editor for Amiga programmers and
writers.
 
CED's  power,  speed,  and  flexibility  earned  it  the  1992 Amazing
Computing  Reader's  Choice Award for Best Text Editor even though, at
that  time,  CED  had  not been upgraded in over two years.  Well, the
wait for a new CygnusEd is finally over.
 
ASDG  is  pleased  to  announce  that  the original author of CygnusEd
Professional,  Mr.   Bruce  Dawson,  has joined the full-time staff of
ASDG  and  has  produced  release  3.0 of one of the most popular text
editors ever released for the Amiga personal computer.
 
Release 3.0 offers many new features and improvements.  These include:
full  compatibility  with  Workbench 2.0 and 3.0 with CED's now-famous
lightning  fast  scrolling  and  text  rendering  on  any  AGA screen;
multiple  concurrent  CEDs  can  be  launched  in  separate windows or
screens;  a  full  featured  macro  editor  is  supplied;  the  system
clipboard  is  used  for block operations allowing blocks to be shared
with  other programs; and search and replace strings offer ``history''
so that they can remember previous values.
 
And,  owing  to  CED's  incredible  following overseas, Release 3.0 is
locale.library  compatible,  which  means  it  can  present  its  user
interface  in multiple languages.  In addition to English, a localized
text set for Germany will be provided initially.
 
Also  of  note  is  Release  3.0's  upgraded  manual  which  has  been
substantially enhanced and re-typeset for increased quality.
 
CED  Release 3.0 carries a suggested list price of $119.95.  Owners of
previous  versions  of CygnusEd can upgrade to the new release for $35
including  shipping  (if  you live in the United States).  If you live
elsewhere in North America, add an additional $5 for shipping.  If you
reside  outside  North  America,  please  add  $15  for  shipping.  To
upgrade,  send  a check and your original disk to ASDG.  If you cannot
locate your original disk, contact ASDG to make other arrangements.
 
To learn more about CygnusEd Professional Release 3.0 or any of ASDG's
other  award  winning  products,  contact  Ms.  Gina Cerniglia at ASDG
Incorporated, 925 Stewart Street, Madison, WI, 53713 or call (608) 273
6585.
 
 
All  trademarks  or  registered  trademarks  are the property of their
respective holders.
