LONDON, ENGLAND, 1993 NOV 3 (NB) -- As part of an innovative 
UKP4 million redisplay, The London Transport Museum (LTM) has 
introduced a Commodore Amiga CD32-based audio-visual 
computer-based system.

The museum claims that the system has allowed it to move to 
state-of-the-art interpretation techniques, to communicate 
effectively with their visitors and, in particular, to use to the full, 
the wealth of imagery and data at their command which cannot be 
presented in conventional displays.

At the heart of many of the new displays is the Commodore CD32, 
a CD-ROM equipped computer system. The LTM claims that the 
machine's high quality graphics, double-speed CD-ROM drive, 32-bit 
processor and custom display hardware provide the ideal platform 
for audio visual and interactive displays (AVID's).

When completed, as many as 109 CD32's will be used to provide
interactive information, video, animations, interactive sound
effects, display control, and background sound effect. Plans call 
for all the machines to be networked together using an expansion 
system currently being developed by Index Information, the 
company producing all the computer displays.

"We plan to take this opportunity to introduce new methods of
interpreting the collection, using the latest developments in
design, graphics, audio visual and interactive displays," explained
Rob Lansdown, head of LTM's communications and display.

According to Lansdown, the computer system has allowed the museum 
to tell the 200 year story of London's urban public transport. "We
have taken the linear, chronological, sequence of story panels off
the walls and associated them directly with the objects in the
collection," he said. "In this non-linear, object oriented approach 
we will create 'islands' of interest and ensure that the vehicles 
and other original material tell the story." 

"The visitor becomes free to explore the Museum, its collection and
stories in a non-linear way, letting their own particular interest
lead them around the Museum. Visitors will choose their own
priorities and interests, navigating between the principle story
'islands' to follow say, a social history or a technological theme,"
he explained.

According to Lansdown. the multimedia world has already 
experimented with the idea of a "Hyper-Museum" in the form of a 
virtual museum on videodisc, CD-ROM, and hard disk.

"The intention is to take this concept one step further. We want to
take this Hyper-media and use it to go beyond the database to
interact with and interpret a real museum. Instead of being shown
images of the collection as you Hyper-link around the disc, we will
take you to the actual objects!," he said.

In the real object-based Museum the visitor is free to wander
through the displays, dipping into the electronic HyperMuseum when
they want to. As the Museum's core displays will also be written in
a non-linear style, the electronic sections will form an integral
part of the whole interpretation, adding a further dimension to the
visitor's experience, Lansdown explained.

"Many of the qualities that will make the CD32 such a successful
home entertainment system also make it the ideal commercial 
multimedia player," said Mick Tinker, technical director of Index
Information, the developers of the museum system. "A high quality 
and low cost delivery unit combined with a powerful development 
platform is allowing us to provide advanced displays at much lower 
costs than competitive systems," he added.

Tinker said that the company has had a very positive response from
early demonstrations of the projects. "We feel that the concept will
attract the attention of museums and visitors from around the
world," he said.

"One of the new underground train simulators was shown at an
exhibition and ever since the museum has been receiving regular
requests from companies wishing to hire the display for their own
exhibition stands," he added.

Index Information claims to be one of the major commercial
developers of Amiga- and CD32-based custom software and 
graphics applications for a wide range of interactive multimedia 
and broadcast graphics displays.

Formed in January 1991, the company is rapidly expanding and
currently has eight staff, supplemented by additional experts and
consultants as required. Current and previous customers have
included the London Transport Museum, British Telecom (for the 
CD-ROM Interface), BBC Scotland (for the Catchword game show 
software), and the Amiga Center Scotland (for the Harlequin 
graphics card software).

The London Transport Museum first opened its doors in 1980, in 
the former Covent Garden Flower Market. Since then, the museum 
has been at the center of the renaissance of Covent Garden as one 
of London's liveliest places.

(Steve Gold/19931102/Press & Public Contact: Index 
Information - tel +44-256=703426; Email on the Internet:
index@cix.compulink.co.uk)


(note: the reference to "UKP4 million" near the top means
4 million British Pounds. 1 pound = appx US$1.50)
