[these are two postings to Usenet this date by Fred Fish...]
----

Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Path: portal!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!emory!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!darwin.sura.net
 !sgiblab!majipoor.cygnus.com!fnf
From: fnf@cygnus.com (Fred Fish)
Subject: Re: WARNING (Was: New Fish CD is here.)
Message-ID: <CG4wrz.BDK@cygnus.com>
Keywords: Fish, CDROM
Organization: Cygnus Support, Mountain View, CA
References: <2b6388INNbr@life.ai.mit.edu>
  <2bilh3$336@urmel.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
Date: Sun, 7 Nov 1993 18:31:10 GMT
Lines: 27
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 1452
Portal-Location: 17311.3.12654.5

In article <2bilh3$336@urmel.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>,
Stefan Becker <stefanb@hathi.informatik.rwth-aachen.de> wrote:
>I talked with Fred on the WoC in Cologne. He'll destroy the first run of
>the CD and produce a new version without the file. Everyone will get the
>new version for free. I'm sure he'll post an official statement on this
>when he gets back to the US.

I managed to find an internet connection here in Cologne so I could
telnet back home to read my mail and news postings about this issue.
Stefan is correct (thanks for posting in case I couldn't), the first
CD does contain a virus and I will have to make a replacement CD-ROM.
This replacement will be available about Nov 20-24 and will be free
to anyone that wishes to return the original for replacement.  I'm
not going to insist that people return their original CD-ROM if they
understand the issues involved and wish to keep it for personal use.
However, if the CD-ROM is to be made publically accessible such as 
via ftp, or via a BBS, then it must be replaced with the virus-free
version.  I will send a letter to all subscribers who received the
CD-ROM directly from me, explaining the problem and offering the
replacement CD-ROM.  I will do this immediately upon my return
from Germany, on Nov 12th.

We destroyed about 500 CD-ROM's here at the Cologne WOC show,
where I carved up the optical side with a knife and signed the
front, and gave them away as souvenirs.

-Fred
------


(I've also mailed this to the comp.sys.amiga.announce moderator but
 I wanted to get it posted as soon as possible so please excuse the
 duplication here.  -Fred)

On Nov 2nd, two hours before I had to leave to get on a plane to go to
the WoC show in Cologne Germany, I got a FAX that said there was an
active Saddam Hussein virus on disk 919 in the BBBF submission.  This
was later confirmed when I arrived in Cologne on Nov 4th.

Because the contents of disks 911-930 are on the Oct Fresh Fish
CD-ROM, this problem also affects that CD-ROM.

The details, as I understand them at the moment, are:

(1)	The virus is on disk 919 in the BBBF submission.  The exact
	filename is "BBBF/FileVirLib/VirusToTest/Saddam_Hussein_virus".

(2)	The virus is only dangerous if you are running kickstart
	1.2 or 1.3.  However it is a *very* dangerous virus.

(3)	In order to infect your system you would need to execute
	the file containing the virus.  Under normal use of the
	CD-ROM, there is no danger from the virus.

User's might legitimately ask how such an error could occur, including
an easily detectable virus (using most virus checkers) and one with an
obvious name as well!  The only explanation I can offer at this point
is that we obviously didn't run a virus checker over all files on the
CD-ROM (though we do normally have virus checkers running on the test
systems that will detect viruses when they get run), and that the
person working for me on that batch of floppy disks didn't realize
that this was an actual working virus and not just a test file that
simulated a virus or a castrated virus that would be no danger.  It's
still my responsibility though, so any blame for including it must
fall on me.

As soon as I return home, on about Nov 12th, I will reissue disk 919
with the virus removed, and send copies of the replacement floppy to
all of my direct subscribers.  I will also send a letter to all of my
direct CD-ROM subscribers, notifying them of the problem and offering
a replacement CD-ROM at no charge, should they wish to return the
virus infected one.  I will not insist that all CD-ROM users return
their CD-ROM's, except those that use the CD-ROM in such a way that
the file containing this virus is publically accessible, such as on a
BBS or ftp server.

Once we were certain that the CD-ROM contained an active virus we
halted further distribution of the CD-ROM.  This meant that I had to
destroy approximately 500 CD-ROM's at the WoC show in Cologne, much to
the frustration of local German users who begged to be allowed to
purchase them.  The optical side was carved up with a knife, I signed
the front, and we gave them away as souvenirs of the show.

Ultimately I expect this virus to cost me about $3,000 to $5,000 in
lost productivity time, CD-ROM replacement production costs, and
shipping charges.  So you can be very sure I'll be doing everything in
my power to avoid future virus problems.

I am very disappointed that Safe Hex International apparently offered
no warning that their distribution included an actual working virus
rather than just a file simulating a virus or a castrated, harmless
virus.  Furthermore, to pick such a dangerous virus seems to me to be
very irresponsible.  I'm not contemplating any sort of legal action at
this time since I don't feel that the submission had any malicious
intent, though I'm also not ruling such action out for now, or in the
future should I discover new submissions containing trojan horses or
viruses.

Because of the time I will lose dealing with this problem, the next
Fresh Fish CD-ROM may be delayed a week or so.  My best estimate at
the moment is that the December Fresh Fish CD-ROM (aka the second
monthly CD-ROM) should ship about the second or third week of
December.

-Fred
