TITLE

 Amiga Game Zone magazine


COMPANY

 Amiga Game Zone
 103 W. California
 Urbana, IL 61801 
 USA

 ORDERS:   1-800-32-AMIGA
 INFO/FAX: 1-217-344-3478


DESCRIPTION

American Amiga owners will finally have their own Amiga-specific game magazine.
Amiga Game Zone will exclusively cover Amiga games and related hardware from 
both the United States and Europe.  All machines will be supported, including
the new CD32, AGA, and standard Amigas.  Issues will have full-color covers and
will include numerous Amiga screenshots and in-game graphics.  Amiga Game Zone 
will initially be published on a bi-monthly basis, but plans are to go to 
monthly issues by summer.  The premiere issue will be nationally distributed 
to newsstands and computer stores in December.

Amiga Game Zone will offer the most detailed information and reviews in the 
industry.  Each issue will have information on new European import games as 
well as American releases.  Charts of the twenty best selling games on both 
continents will also be included.  The December issue will feature a complete
analysis of the new Amiga CD32 with every available title reviewed.  
Approximately twenty current games will also be reviewed in each issue with a 
brief overview and a detailed opinion offered for each game.  Reviews will 
include complete compatibility information and an overall rating.  A special 
column will cover every AGA game released for the Amiga 1200 and 4000.  

Amiga Game Zone will clearly be the best source of regular information for the 
Amiga games player.  Strategy guides will be published for the top American 
games, in addition to cheats, level codes, and tips for all Amiga games.  
Classic commerical and public domain games will be featured on the last page of
each issue.  

Sample issues are available from the publisher for $4 each plus $1 for postage 
and handling.  Six issue subscriptions are $24 including postage.  To order by 
Visa or MasterCard, call 1-800-32-AMIGA.  Send checks or money orders to Amiga 
Game Zone, 103 W. California, Urbana, IL 61801.  For more information, call 
1-217-344-3478.


ANNOUNCEMENT BY

 Geoff Miller, editor
 Amiga Game Zone magazine
 miller@mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu

--
Read all administrative posts before putting your post up.  Mailing
list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu.  Comments to zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu.
MAIL ALL COMP.SYS.AMIGA.ANNOUNCE ANNOUNCEMENTS TO announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
