
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Path: portal!barrnet.net!sgiblab!pacbell.com!well!waltal
From: waltal@well.sf.ca.us (Walter Lounsbery)
Subject: Scientific Amigan Newsletter: Call for Authors
Message-ID: <CL84xD.E4D@well.sf.ca.us>
Summary: Looking for technically-oriented writers for newsletter
Keywords: "Scientific Amigan" Amiga Writers newsletter
Sender: news@well.sf.ca.us
Nntp-Posting-Host: well.sf.ca.us
Organization: The Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link, Sausalito, CA
X-Newsreader: NN version 6.5.0 #1 (NOV)
Date: Mon, 14 Feb 1994 17:08:00 GMT
Lines: 30
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 1367
Portal-Location: 17311.3.14242.1


Please distribute this message on Amiga bulletin boards.

    Scientific Amigan: Call for Authors
    
  Scientific Amigan is in search of writers with experiences in research,
development, or design with Amigas.  If you have used or written techni-
cal software for the Amiga, SA wants your reviews or descriptions.  SA
publishes Amiga hardware design information, as well.  Since our readers
often publish papers or other technical material, information on technical
publishing is welcome.

  Scientific Amigan is the only publication devoted to the technical
Amiga user.  It is a monthly newsletter, providing access to a disk and
reprint library containing information and software related to the news-
letter articles.  Readers span the spectrum of technology, from chemistry
to aerospace engineering, electrical engineering, physics, mathematics,
and other fields.  Subscribers from Hong Kong to Norway (and mostly in
the United States) are eager to find out how to get the most from their
Amiga.

  Please consider writing for Scientific Amigan now.  Start by sending
email or mail for an Author's Guide.  A sample issue is also available.

                   Walter Lounsbery, Publisher
                   Scientific Amigan
                   POB 60685
                   Savannah, GA   31420-0685
                   waltal@well.sf.ca.us
                   
