LONDON, ENGLAND, 1994 MAR 9 (NB) -- Commodore UK has revealed 
that its pilot project, of an automated voice response system for 
its helpline, has been a great success. The service, which has been
operational since December, will now go fully live to all callers,
Newsbytes has learned.

"In December, 1993, we introduced an interactive voice response
(IVR) helpline to help ease the pressure on human operators over the
Christmas period. Since then, it's been a great success. By the end
of January, it had handled 13,326 queries," explained Terry Maguire,
customer services manager with Commodore UK.

The IVR used was developed jointly by ICL and Legion Limited, the
software house. The company claims that it is the industry's first
fully automated diagnostics and advice line of its kind in the UK.

The service is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and runs
in parallel at ICL's call reception center on Wakefield, Yorkshire.
To date, the automated service has handled around a third of all
Commodore Helpline calls.

"We receive a variety of calls to the Helpline," Maguire said, "from
dealers asking how to resolve a fault, to customers simply 
wanting to know how to operate a unit. Our aim in introducing this
automated diagnostics service was to allow customers to resolve 
problems themselves, wherever possible, by listening to recorded 
information. This allows call receptionists to concentrate on 
getting engineers out to customers more quickly." 

According to Peter Horridge, operations manager for ICL customer
service, which handles Commodore's support calls, the key to a
successful automated service is not only its ability to handle a
large step function increase in call volumes efficiently, but also
its ability to mid-call divert to a live operator when needed.

"The majority of users and problems exploit the facilities provided
by the automated service. We should not lose sight, however, that
the end user requires a balance between automated diagnosis and
direct contact with a live operator whenever appropriate. The call
rates to dare using both the diagnostic service and the mid-call
divert facility prove that the IVR is an acceptable solution," he
said.

The Commodore UK helpline is on 0345-626090, a local rate "linkline"
call that is charged at local rates wherever in the UK the caller is
located. When callers are connected to the Helpline, after an
introductory message, they are asked to dial "5," which ascertains
whether the call is touch tone or rotary dialed. Touch tone calls
are routed through the IVR system, while rotary dial calls are
routed to a live operator.

(Steve Gold/19940308/Press Contact: Peter Horridge, ICL,
44-21-456-1111)
