Path: portal!news1.svc.portal.com!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!howland.
 reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!noc.near.net!news.delphi
 .com!usenet
From: Stephen Hartford <playinc@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.graphics
Subject: Desktop Video Pioneers Launch PLAY
Date: Sat, 19 Mar 94 04:03:03 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <J+0PQbX.playinc@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: delphi.com
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 2008
Portal-Location: 17262.3.8061.1

San Francisco, CA - Former NewTek senior staff members who left the Kansas
company earlier this year have ended industry speculation by unveiling their ne
w
venture, 'PLAY'. "Launching the Video Toaster and with it the desktop video
industry over the last seven years was a fantastic adventure," commented PLAY
President Paul Montgomery, "Along the way we discovered some very compelling
opportunities that went beyond one technology or even one platform. PLAY was
formed to take advantage of those opportunities." The company, which consists
primarily of Californians who relocated to Kansas to build NewTek, is based in
San Francisco.
 
"In the mid-eighties NewTek Vice-President and visionary Paul Montgomery
assembled a very unique team from around the world." said Tom Egan, senior
editor for Channel 4000, the leading desktop video news service. "With their
accomplishments in building this industry at NewTek, they're my pick for the
'desktop video Dream Team'. I'm expecting a lot from this group." PLAY features
Emmy-award winning members of the Video Toaster R & D team, including NewTek's
former Head of Softwawre Development, Steve Hartford, video hardware and
software guru, Ken Turcotte, and Toaster hardware design engineer, Brad
Carvey. Other PLAY founders include NewTek's former Director of Marketing,
Mark Randall, plus Product Development Manager and Hollywood technology
pioneer, Daniel Kaye. Rounding out the PLAY executive team is a face known
to millions, Kiki Stockhammer, the video industry's well-known celebrity
spokesperson.
 
PLAY will announce it's first strategic relationship at a special event on
Sunday, March 20th at 7:00 P.M. in the Julius Room of Caesars Palace, Las
Vegas. "We feel the 'information superhighway' and desktop video are
desinted to collide sooner than anyone thinks" said Montgomery, "PLAY and
our new partner Private Channels are perfectly positioned to provide the
technology, content and distribution needed to realize the dream of
'video-on-demand'."
