(Cross-posted to the Portal System's Amiga Zone, the Video Toaster
and LightWave mailing lists, comp.sys.amiga.graphics and
comp.sys.amiga.misc on Usenet).
------

I attended NewTek's NAB Press reception in a large balloom 
at Ceaser's Palace in Las Vegas, NV this afternoon. What follows (after
my comments) is one of the press releases (probably the most 
significant one) from the press kit I received there.
(Time permitting I'll type in and post the others as well)

Some of the people I noticed in attendance at this standing-room-only
reception were: Brad (brother of Dana) Carvey (Toaster 
pioneer/hardware nice guy), Jeff Porter (Commodore Engineering),
Lou Wallace & Linda LaFlamme (Desktop Video World magazine), 
Jim Plant (Video Toaster User), Don Hicks (Amazing Computing),
Scott Thede (Axiom Software), Mitch Lopes, Tony Gomez, Ben Fuller,
Arnie Cachelin, and quite a few other long-time Amiga developers,
boosters, authors, dealers, and high priests. :) and, of course
reporters and editors from just about every computer/video/graphics
magazine you'd care to name.  Toaster Guru Lee Stranahan was
spotted running around in and out of the area behind the big
projection screen in his trademark baggy shorts. 

The same presentation was given three times - first for the press,
then for dealers, and thirdly for the general NAB attendee audience.
Ceaser's palace has very opulent meeting/ballrooms. I can only
imagine what it must cost to rent one for an afternoon, plus
catering for over 1000 people.

Tim Jenison, NewTek's head honcho, handled most of the duties at
the microphone, describing the new products which were illustrated
on a huge projection screen by a technician at the controls of a
nearby Toaster system.  

A video was shown first, which was a parody of NewTek's typical
promo tape - the dulcent tones of Ken Nordine describing how the
Toaster is the most siginificant invention in the history of the
universe, etc., and teasing the audience with "you'll have to wait
till tomorrow to find out what this is blah blah etc." Then the
voice of Penn (& Teller) Jillette took over for some humorous
"that was all baloney" relief and introduced the new product:
the Video Toaster Flyer, a tapeless "non-linear" editing system
which integrates into and becomes part of a Toaster/Amiga.

Press release follows.  Any typing errors are mine. All 
superlatives are NewTek's :)

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
contact: Jud Alford, NewTek Inc. (913) 228-8000

NEWTEK STUNS NAB WITH THE INTRODUCTION OF THE VIDEO TOASTER FLYER
TAPELESS EDITING SYSTEM

Las Vegas, March 20, 1994 - NewTek, Inc., the pioneers of the desktop
video industry, announce the Video Toaster Flyer, the first D2 quality
tapeless editing system.  With the Flyer priced at $3995, NewTek once
again shatters the price/performance standards for broadcast
quality video production just as they did with the release of the
Video Toaster in 1990.

"When we originally conceived the idea for the Video Toaster it was
to provide all the tools necessary to create broadcast quality
television at a price almost anyone could afford." said Tim
Jenison, NewTek President.  "With the introduction of the
Video Toaster Flyer we have made the tools even more accessible,
reducing the cost of production by an order of magnitude."

The Video Toaster Flyer is the result of more than seven years of
intense research and development.  The Video Toaster Flyer
offers D2 quality video and CD quality audio editing in a tapeless, non-
linear environment.  The Video Toaster Flyer tapeless editor 
allows the user to dial in the video quality, up to lossless
D2 quality.  All video data is stored on computer hard drives
that allow the user to access particular segments instantaneously
without having to shuttle from one point to another as in 
traditional tape editing.  The system employs an easy to use, drag and
drop storyboard interface.

The breakthrough technology in the Video Toaster Flyer is NewTek's
revolutionary new VTASC compression algorithm.  VTASC sets a
new standard for hard disk based video compresson by combining
D2, broadcast quality video with unprecedented compression ratios.
NewTek is currently in discussion with a number of vendors looking
to license VTASC and Video Toaster Flyer technology.

The Video Toaster Flyer continues NewTek's tradition of providing
easy to use, broadcast quality video production tools, at
unbelivevably low prices.. The complete Video Toaster Flyer
system provides the ability to incorporate all of the tools from
the Video Toaster; digital video effects, paint graphics,
titles and animations directly into productions edited from one 
simple interface.  For Toaster LightWave 3D users, the tapeless
editor will allow the blending of moving video easily and 
seamlessly into animated video prouctions.

NewTek will be demonstrating the Video Toaster Flyer at the
National Association of Broadcasters Convention, March 21-24
in Booth #11050.

                           ###
                           
Jenison explained that the system using the Flyer should be
equipped with two _large_ hard drives (at least 1Gigabyte each
was his minimum recommendation). He also explained that no
video tape was used in his presentation to the audience
(described above) as everything was being played directly off
hard disk by the Toaster/Flyer system. Among other claims,
he touted their VTASC compression scheme as "better than
JPEG or MPEG".  

By the way, 1 Gig of disk space is enough to hold about six 
minutes of combined video/audio using the Flyer.  The Flyer interface, 
as shown, looks quite nice. It uses little thumbnail miniatures (similar
to Toaster "croutons") which can be dragged and dropped in any
order, with transitions dropped between them - basically it's
as simple as mousing a little picture from one part of the
Flyer's screen (storage) into another part (storyboard) - looked
like something the complete video editing novice/idiot could handle.
No confusing intersecting timelines or long strings of numbers
to muck with.  Each video or still clip's crouton also has a
detail menu which can be called up to tweak different parameters,
such as the start/end time of a clip if using the whole clip
is not desired.  Now, mind you, I've never done any video editing
but this thing makes it look absolutely painless. 
					      
An appx 3 minute "video clip" of LightWave scenes was shown
towards the end of the presentation and it was totally impressive.
To a driving rock soundtrack synced perfectly with the cuts,
we viewed short samples of dozens of mainstream professional
productions (Babylon 5, seaQuest, the Shasta commercial,
Todd Rundgren music videos, tons of stuff from The Post Group, etc.
etc.) all of which were created in LightWave.      
The Video Toaster Flyer, according to Jenison, should be in mass
production in July '94, and be on dealers' shelves by the Fall.

Lastly, for the "advocates" out there, I did not hear the word
"Amiga" uttered once during the presentation. 
Harv
harv@cup.portal.com
  
