[Note - articles from Clarinet/AP/NewsBytes may not be re-published
elsewhere without permission from them to do so...]
----
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, U.S.A., 1994 MAR 28 (NB) -- Commodore
International Ltd., has reported an $8.2 million loss in its
second quarter and admitted it is at risk of financial collapse.

A statement from Commodore said the computer maker, once one of
the PC industry's leaders, is trying to negotiate a restructuring
plan with creditors. "The Company continues to suffer from
inadequate liquidity and there can be no assurance that the
company can attract additional financial resources and complete a
successful restructuring," said the statement. "In the absence of
additional resources and a restructuring, the company may become
subject to reorganization or other liquidation proceedings."

A subsidiary, Commodore Business Machines (Australia), of Sydney,
was placed in liquidation early in March, with total debts in the
neighborhood of AUS$3 million (about US$2 million).

In December, the Canadian subsidiary, Commodore Business Machines
Ltd. of Toronto, turned over commercial sales and marketing of
its Intel-based PC line to a Toronto-area company, 3D
Microcomputers Wholesale and Distribution (Canada) Inc.
Subsidiary President Doug MacGregor said the company was finding
it hard to compete in the Intel-based PC market and wanted to
concentrate on its proprietary Amiga line and its CD32 game
machine. He said similar moves were being made by other 
Commodore subsidiaries.

Commodore's CD-TV, a home entertainment device built around
compact disk read-only memory (CD-ROM) and the works of an Amiga
computer, did poorly in the market. The company has been hoping
the newer CD32 would make a better showing.

However, Commodore International's statement said poor economic
conditions and a weak game market have hurt sales of the CD32,
while the company's financial problems have constrained sales of
all its products in the past quarter. Sales of the Amiga 1200
computer strengthened, officials said.

Commodore's quarterly loss is actually smaller than in the
corresponding period last year, but sales have also dropped
substantially.

In the quarter ended December 31, Commodore lost $8.2 million, or
25 cents per share, on sales of $70.1 million. This compares with
a net loss of $77.2 million, or $2.33 per share, on sales of
$237.7 million in the second quarter last year.

In the six months ended December 31, the company reported a
$17.9 million or 54 cents-per-share net loss on sales of $152.7
million. In the first half of last year, Commodore lost $96.0
million, or $2.90 per share, on sales of $396.3 million.

In footnotes to its quarterly financial statements, Commodore
noted that it is in non-compliance with note agreements on $33
million in senior notes held by two institutional lenders, and a
waiver from the lenders expired January 31.

The company also said some suppliers have limited its credit and
begun legal action.

A company controlled by Commodore's chairman, Irving Gould, has
loaned $7.5 million to the company and advanced another $9.9
million to buy components used in producing Commodore products.
The $7.5 million loan is secured by accounts receivable and
inventory, officials said, and the $9.9 million advance has led
to added secured indebtedness to the chairman's company.

(Grant Buckler/19940328/Press Contact: Hock Tan, Commodore,
215-431-9100)
