This press release is apparently legitimate. Although it was
uploaded to Portal by a Portal user, that user works at a newspaper
and it came across the AP newswire and was handed to him. To 
confirm  its legitimacy, I asked a friend to login to another
online service which carries AP newswire (Portal carries Clarinet
which also carries AP releases and Newsbytes) directly... he 
confirmed this press release was there.
Harv
----

04/29 19:10 est

WEST CHESTER, Pa. (AP) - Commodore International Ltd., a pioneer in the
personal computer industry, said late Friday it is going out of business.

The company plans to transfer its assets to unidentified trustees "for the
benefit of its creditors" and has placed its major subsidiary, Commodore
Electronics Ltd., into voluntary liquidation.

"This is the initial phase of a orderly voluntary liquidation of both
companies," Commodore said in a brief statement.

Company executives could not immediately be reached Friday evening.

The company last month reported an $8.2 million loss for the quarter
ending Dec. 31 on sales of 237.7 million in the same period.

In the latest report, Commodore said financial limits had thwarted its
ability to supply products, leading to weakened sales.  One of the new
products, the Amiga CD32 video game [sic], had sold poorly in Europe,
where the company did most of its business.

The company's net worth turned negative in the fiscal year ended last
June 30.

Its stock, which had traded at around $3 per share before the quarterly
results were announced last month, closed unchanged at 8/1/2 cents per
share on the New York Stock Exchange Friday.

Commodore started 40 years ago as a typewriter repair company in the
Bronx.  Its extension to the adding machine business paved the way for it
to make calculators and then personal computers by the mid-1970s.

Commodore competed with Radio Shack for the first computers sold to homes
and co-founder Jack Tramiel became a highly-regarded figure in the
fledgling PC industry.

By the early 1980s, it was overshadowed in the PC business by Apple
Computer Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.  Software
manufacturers didn't create as much software for Commodore's Amiga line as
it did for Apple and IBM-compatible machines.

In recent years, most of Commodore's business was in Europe.
