WEST CHESTER, PENNSYLVANIA, U.S.A., 1994 MAY 2 (NB) -- After months of
speculation surrounding its financial stability, Commodore
International, one of the personal computer industry's pioneers, has
announced plans to enter into voluntary liquidation.

A month after reporting an $8.2-million second-quarter loss and
admitting it was on the verge of financial collapse, Commodore has
announced it is transferring its assets to trustees for the benefit of
its creditors and placing its major subsidiary, Commodore Electronics
Limited, into voluntary liquidation. Both companies will be
liquidated, officials said.

Repeated attempts to obtain further details from the company
brought no response by Newsbytes' deadline.

Commodore, once a typewriter repair shop and later a maker of
calculators, was among the first entrants into the personal computer
business in the late 1970s. After considerable success with its PET
series of business computers in the late 1970s, the early 1980s saw
the low-priced, eight-bit Commodore 64 computer chalking up
respectable sales volumes in the home computer market.

In 1985, Commodore launched the Amiga, a powerful personal computer
with strong graphics features. By that time, however, IBM and its
imitators had taken the largest share of the personal computer market,
leaving a slice for Apple Computer' Macintosh but not much room for
the Amiga to make its mark.

The Amiga "really was spectacular for manipulating and playing with
video," noted Toronto-based personal computing consultant Richard
Morochove, but it never took a significant market share.

Commodore also tried to get into the home multimedia market, first
with the CD-TV and then with the CD32. Both machines used the same
internal workings as an Amiga, but came with a built-in compact disc
read-only memory (CD-ROM) drive and were meant to play entertainment
and education CD-ROM titles at home.

After the CD32 was launched, Commodore officials admitted the original
CD-TV had been a disappointment. They hoped the more powerful CD32
would do better, but as the company collapsed it was still struggling
to make the device catch on.

Commodore's attempt to grab a piece of the market for PCs compatible
with IBM's met with more success in Europe and Canada than in the
United States, but in recent months that too started to fade.

Early this year, the Canadian subsidiary, Commodore Business Machines
Limited of Toronto, turned over the right to sell Commodore-brand PCs
to most buyers to another company, 3D Microcomputer Wholesale and
Distribution (Canada), keeping for itself only the government,
education, and institutional markets. At the time, Doug MacGregor,
president of Commodore Canada, told Newsbytes that his company was
finding it harder and harder to compete in the DOS PC market.

In early March, the Australian subsidiary, Commodore Business Machines
(Australia), of Sydney, was put into liquidation, with total debts of
about AUS$3 million.

The parent company said in late March that its financial problems were
constraining sales of all its products, while poor economic conditions
and a weak computer game market were further crippling the CD32.

While Commodore was a PC industry pioneer, the company had faded into
relative obscurity in recent years, to the point where few but the
minority of Amiga users will notice it is gone, Morochove told
Newsbytes.

"Somehow they lost their leadership and weren't able to regain it," he
said. "For the last few years they haven't been a major player in the
PC market."

(Grant Buckler/19940502/Press Contact: Commodore International,
215-431-9100/AMIGA940502/PHOTO)
