I have no verification that this is authentic but I wanted to
post it anyway for comments (Yes.. you all can post into the
press release msg base if you wish to comment on press releases...)

If any Toaster dealers are reading this, please confirm or deny
the validity of this transcribed FAX. Thanks
-----
Path: portal!portal.com!decwrl!hookup!swrinde!news.uh.edu!Rosie.UH.EDU!ST1R
 S
From: st1rs@Rosie.UH.EDU
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.advocacy
Subject: Official NewTek Press Release on C=
Date: 5 May 1994 23:48:44 GMT
Organization: University of Houston
Lines: 62
Message-ID: <2qc0ks$fqb@masala.cc.uh.edu>
Reply-To: st1rs@Rosie.UH.EDU
NNTP-Posting-Host: rosie.uh.edu
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 2419
Portal-Location: 17267.3.7237.1


NewTek Inc.
May 5, 1994

Dear Friend of the Toaster,

I'm sure you're aware of Commodore's recent announcement of their
liquidation, as it is obviously an issue of concern to everyone connected with
the Video Toaster.  Rumors have been rampant for weeks about what would 
happen, but getting the facts has been a little more difficult.

We want you to know that we weren't caught by surprise.  Events over the
past nine months made it very clear that something would have to change and
that Commodore's liquidation was a possibility.  It didn't take a mind
reader to see Commodore's troubles.

Liquidation certainly wasn't the only possibility, however.  Even as late as 
last week we were aware that other options were being pursued.  While no one
could know exactly what would happen, or when, we did know that something 
would happen and made plans for that eventually.  For reasons that we hope
you will understand, we cannot talk about all of these things at the moment.
What we can say unequivically is that we are committed to the Video Toaster
and our customers.  We are taking the following steps in support of this
goal:

1)  Development on the Flyer is on schedule for shipment of demo units to
    dealers in July and shipment to end users early fall.  Of course, the
    Flyer provides capabilities highly sought after by the existing Toaster
    user base.

2)  We are monitoring product availability in the channel and will provide you
    with all the information we can gather.  At this point, it appears that
    there are Amiga 4000's availabile worldwide to meet demand for the next
    several months.

3)  We will continue to market the Video Toaster and Video Toaster Flyer as
    always.

4)  We are investigating an Amiga refurbishment program.

5)  We are continuing our ongoing Toaster development program.

We realize that there are still a number of questions left unanswered,
but know that as answers become available, we will pass the information on
to you.  A great deal of exciting development continues in Topeka and I
believe that you will be happy with the news coming from here as the year
progresses.

Sincerely,

Tim Jenison
President

----------------------------------------------------------------------

This message was received by Fax at a Houston area Amiga dealer, MicroSearch.
It is obviously of interest to Amiga and Toaster users everywhere..

Later..

Kevin Jackson
