For Immediate Release
Contact: 	Jud Alford
		NewTek, Inc.
		(913) 228-8000
 
		Bobbie Hendershot
		Prime Image
		(408) 867-6519
 
 
 
NewTek and Prime Image Enter Worldwide Markets
 
Topeka, Ks., February 18, 1994 - NewTek, the company which launched the 
desktop video industy with the introduction of the Video Toaster, and Prime
Image, a leader in transcoding time base correctors, synchronizers, standards 
converters and still video stores, have announced an agreement that will let
the Video Toaster bridge worldwide video standards.
 
The agreement brings together the Video Toaster with Prime Image's 
Passport 4000 device that offers a digital video signal handling capabilities 
such as conversion to international video standards including PAL, SECAM, 
PAL-M PAL-N AND NTSC 4.43.  The Passport 4000 also offers time base 
correction/synchronization.
 
"NewTek has built a billion dollar industry on the strength of Video Toaster
technology," said Bill Hendershot, founder and president of Prime Image, Inc.
"Prime Image's customers around the world have let us know there's
tremendous pent-up demand for the Video Toaster in diverse video format
applications.  given this demand and given the standards conversion 
technology Prime Image has pioneered, it's a natural fit for Prime Image and 
NewTek to work together."
 
"I was very impressed how well the the Passport 4000 immediately 
complements the Video Toaster," said Tim Jension, founder, owner and 
president of NewTek.  "The Video Toaster equipped with the Passport 4000 is
going to bring desktop television production to vast new markets."
 
 
The Passport 4000 converts from one standard to another with a new "pass 
through" interpolation technique that does not degrade the signal.  The 
Passport 4000 also offers time base correction/synchronization, digital effects, 
and adds AT bus expansion slots for the Amiga 4000. The time base 
corrector/synchronzier can transcode composite or Y/C out and features an 
ultra-stable freeze frame/field. 
 
NewTek + Prime Image = Emmy2
 
Hendershot invented digital time-based correction 20 years ago.   Prime Image 
has built on this core technology and expanded its application throughout the 
video industry.  Jenison invented the Video Toaster and introduced it in 1990 
and it quickly became the standard for inexpensive, broadcast quality 
television production.  The engineering Commmittee of the Academy of 
Television Arts & Sciences have awarded the Emmy for Technical 
Achievement to both NewTek and Prime Image.
 
The products are currently shipping.  NewTek (booth #11050) and Prime
Image (booth #17184) will be demonstrating the products at the National 
Association of Broadcasters Convention in Las Vegas, March 21-24.
