
For Immediate Release
	Contact: 	Jud Alford
			NewTek, Inc.
			(913) 228-8000


NewTek stuns NAB with the introduction of 
the Video Toaster Flyer tapeless editing system

Las Vegas, March 20, 1994 - NewTek, Inc., the pioneers of the desktop video 
industry, announce the Video Toaster Flyer, the first D2 quality tapeless 
editing system.  With the Flyer priced at $3995, NewTek once again shatters 
the price/performance standards for broadcast quality video production just 
as they did with the release of the Video Toaster in 1990. 

"When we originally conceived the idea for the Video Toaster it was to 
provide all the tools necessary to create broadcast quality television at a price 
almost anyone could afford." said Tim Jenison, NewTek President.  "With 
the introduction of the Video Toaster Flyer we have made the tools even 
more accessible, reducing the cost of production by an order of magnitude." 

The Video Toaster Flyer is the result of more than seven years of intense 
research and development.  The Video Toaster Flyer offers D2 quality video 
and CD quality audio editing in a tapeless, non-linear environment.  The 
Video Toaster Flyer tapeless editor allows the user to dial in the video quality, 
up to lossless D2 quality.  All video data is stored on computer hard drives 
that allow the user to access particular segments instantaneously without 
having to shuttle from one point to another as in traditional tape editing. The 
system employs an easy to use, drag and drop storyboard interface.

The breakthrough technology in the Video Toaster Flyer is NewTek's 
revolutionary new VTASC compression algorithm.  VTASC sets a new 
standard for hard disk based video compression by combining D2, broadcast 
quality video with unprecedented compression ratios.  NewTek is currently 
in discussions with a number of vendors looking to license VTASC and 
Video Toaster Flyer technology.

The Video Toaster Flyer continues NewTek's tradition of providing easy to 
use, broadcast quality video production tools, at unbelievably low prices. The 
complete Video Toaster Flyer system provides the ability to incorporate all of 
the tools from the Video Toaster; digital video effects, paint graphics, titles 
and animations directly into productions edited from one simple interface. 
For Toaster LightWave 3D users, the tapeless editor will allow the blending of 
moving video easily and seamlessly into animated video productions.

NewTek will be demonstrating the Video Toaster Flyer at the National 
Association of Broadcasters Convention, March 21-24 in Booth #11050.

###
