August 2, 1994

TO: All Axiom Software Patrons

RE: Axiom Software leaving the Amiga market


Over the past few weeks, I have received inquiries about Axiom Software
leaving the Amiga as reported in the July issue of Video Toaster User.
Let me be the first to say that Axiom Software is NOT leaving the Amiga.
Over the past six months, Axiom Software has published three brand-new 
products, all of which have taken large amounts of time and energy to 
publish.  In addition, Axiom Software has just published its fourth 
version of Pixel 3D, Pixel 3D Professional Version 2.  All of these 
products are Amiga-based and demonstrate a huge commitment to the Amiga.
Here at Axiom Software, and at other software publishers, the average 
time between new products is one year.  With that in mind, Axiom Software
has just published its fourth product in six months,  a record that puts
our money where our mouth is.

As reported in VTU, we have planned for the completion of these four
products for the past year, with Pixel 3D Professional Version 2 being
the final of these four, but NOT our final Amiga product.  Everything 
stated by VTU is true except for Axiom Software planning its exit from 
the Amiga market.  We love the Amiga,  it's our home, and our customers 
have made it possible for us to give them the coolest 3D technology we 
know how.  We will continue to support the Amiga and all of our faithful 
customers.  To be completely honest, we at Axiom Software wish we could 
program the Amiga for the rest of our lives,  after all, it takes
"forever" to learn how to program the thing!    

Axiom Software will continue to support the Amiga, but to do this 
completely, we must investigate expansion, not moving.  We at Axiom
Software are excited about the future, Pixel 3D Professional Version 2 
has just shipped and we think its our best product yet!  I encourage 
anyone who has any questions to call and talk to us toll free 
at 1-800-49-AXIOM.  

Thank you for your time and patronage!


Scott G. Thede
President

Axiom Software Inc.
1526 122nd Street
Burnsville, MN 55337
PHONE: 612.894.0596
FAX  : 612.894.1127
