

**** P R E S S  R E L E A S E ****

Sarasota, Florida, July 18, 1994 -- Contraption Industries, a division
of Apogee Technologies, today announced the availability of the Amiga
Audio Expander(TM). This project has been subjected to over a year of
design work and extensive beta-testing. The end result is much more
than a graphic equalizer or amplifier. It is also a state of the art
filtering system that actually increases the audio range of your Amiga's
sound. This assures only the deepest rich bass and clearest high treble
reaches your stereo system. Your Amiga can now deliver high quality
music and sound for normal Amiga use as well as your multimedia and
video productions at a level you have never experienced before.

Suggested retail price in the USA is $69.95 plus $5.00 shipping and
handling. Florida Residents please add seven percent sales tax. The
Audio Expander comes with a full one year manufacturer's warranty and
is compatible with all Amigas except for the A1000 and CD32. An added
bonus of three disks of audio software is included in the package.
They contain several high quality music modules in Protracker format,
a collection of audio utilities ranging from sound creation to sample
recording direct to hard drives, and Protracker version 2.99 by Apogee
Globalsoft.

"I find myself using it constantly, impressive professional sound" says
Amiga musician Eric Gieseke (also known as Sidewinder). He has been
using the expander in his audio endeavors and recently released a
100% Amiga produced CD entitled Future Shock II.

A demonstration audio cassette of the expander's abilities is available
by sending $3.00 to:

 Contraption Industries
 1851 University Parkway
 Sarasota, Florida 34243

For further information, please contact our Tech Support and Press
Relations in the United States by phone at (813) 355-6121 or Fax at
(813) 355-7767 or our toll free order line at (800) 820-7068. We can
also be reached via the internet. Our address is Apogee@Cup.Portal.Com.

Audio Expander is a trademark of Contraption Industries.
Other trademarks are those of their respective holders.
