
ZIFF-DAVIS ACQUIRES ASSETS OF COMPUTE MAGAZINE; COMPUTER LIFE AND
FAMILYPC'SADVERTISERS TO GET UNEXPECTED BONUS CIRCULATION  NEW YORK, Aug. 8
/PRNewswire/ -- The Ziff-Davis Consumer Media Group today announced that it
has acquired assets of Compute magazine from General Media International
(GMI), including its list of subscribers. The publication of Compute will
cease after the monthly magazine's September 1994 issue, and Compute
subscribers will be offered the option of subscribing to Computer Life or
FamilyPC, providing unexpected bonus circulation to the advertisers of both
these new publications. 

J. Scott Briggs, President of the Consumer Media Group and Publisher of
Computer Life, said, "Compute was the pioneering home computing publication
-- created when the market was much smaller and far less complex.  We are
pleased to be able to carry its tradition forward with the cornerstones of
the exploding new world of home computing, Computer Life and FamilyPC." 

He added, "Today, no computer publication can survive trying to be all things
to all people, which is why Ziff-Davis has created targeted consumer
computing publications: Computer Life, aimed at individuals with a special
interest in incorporating the PC into their personal lifestyles, and
FamilyPC, a joint venture with The Walt Disney Company, focused on families
of computer-oriented parents and their children. Compute subscribers will be
able to select the magazine which addresses their specific interest."
"Compute was an ideal point of entry to the home computer market for us,"
according to Kathy Keeton, President and Chief Operating Officer of General
Media.  "For some time now we have been developing electronic media products
to serve this market.  Ziff-Davis was one of several companies that
approached us to buy Compute, and we decided to take advantage of current
market conditions and sell the publication's assets to them and focus our
attention in this segment on interactive media. Compute's readers will be
well served by Ziff-Davis, which is now in a unique position to succeed in
this field." 

Founded by entrepreneur Robert Locke in 1979, Compute began as a newsletter
which quickly evolved into a quarterly and then a monthly magazine focusing
on the home computer market.  It was acquired by Capital Cities/ABC in 1983
and then by GMI in 1990. 

Under GMI's direction, the editorial content has improved and circulation has
steadily increased.  According to its December 1993 Publishers Statement,
Compute had a paid circulation of 291,000, composed of more than 248,000
subscriptions and almost 43,000 newsstand sales. 

"We are comfortably on track on exceed our circulation guarantees with both
Computer Life and FamilyPC," said Briggs, "so our acquisition of Compute's
subscribers will be pure bonus circulation for our advertisers.  There will
be no increase in advertising rates during 1994 at either publication." 

He added, "Computer Life and FamilyPC will also make every effort to
accommodate Compute advertisers, as well.  A limited number of advertising
pages will be made available in the October premier issue of Computer Life
and both publications will have programs for Compute advertisers in their
November issues." 

Distinctly human in voice and outlook, Computer Life is targeted at
individuals who are making computing an integral part of their personal
lives. It will be published monthly and the October premiere issue, which
will appear on newsstands September 13, will have a guaranteed paid
circulation of more than 300,000. 

FamilyPC is a joint venture of Ziff-Davis and The Walt Disney Company.
 Targeted at the needs of computer-oriented parents and their children,
FamilyPC will publish two bi-monthly issues in 1994 and will appear monthly
beginning March 1995.  The September/October issue will hit newsstands on
August 16, 1994. 

The Consumer Media Group is a division of the Ziff-Davis Publishing Company,
the leading publisher of computer magazines in the U.S.  In addition to
Computer Life and FamilyPC, Ziff-Davis publishes PC Magazine, PC Week,
PC/Computing, Computer Shopper, MacUser, MacWeek, Windows Sources and
Computer Gaming World.  It is also launching InterActive Week in October 1994
through its InterActive Enterprises joint venture. 

-0-                          8/8/94 /CONTACT:  Greg Jarboe of Ziff-Davis
Publishing, 617-393-3313/ 
 CO:  Ziff-Davis Consumer Media Group; Ziff-Davis Publishing ST:  New York
IN:  CPR PUB SU:  TNM 



Transmitted:  94-08-08 19:09:50 EDT
