Sadly, I must report the closing of another venerable Amiga specific
magazine: Jumpdisk.  This article appears in the current issue.
Harv
----
------------------
EDITOR'S TWO CENTS
By RICHARD RAMELLA
------------------

THE END NEARS
     What better or worse time than the eighth anniversary issue to
announce a plan for winding down JUMPDISK operations?
     I plan to publish five more issues of JUMPDISK -- through the December
1994 issue. That will be No. 101 -- which seems a nice number to me.
     If you just re-subscribed for another year, you're now wondering what
I'm trying to pull on you. Well, don't worry. I just came up with the plan
this week, and I'm resolved to see it through in a way which will satisfy all
subscribers.
     This month, I will only accept renewals for five months: $30, or $38
for both five months of JUMPDISK and PDQ
     A significant number of subscriptions expire within the next five
months. With this announcement, many of you will choose not to continue.
That will winnow the subscriber list into a small bunch of diehards.
     Starting in January, I will continue to distribute two disks a month.
     One disk will  be called PDQ as before. The other won't be called
anything in particular. Both disks will contain the newest distributable
programming I can locate.
     The final JUMPDISK issue -- December 1994 -- will contain the last
JUMPDISK instalments of Mark Brown's INFOFILE and Brad Webb's SHELLGAME.
Brad's DOS LAB TWO series comes to a natural conclusion in the August issue,
when the 30th and final chapter is published.

ECONOMICS 101
     I'm going to tell you some deep economic secrets, no kidding!
     The JUMPDISK operation has not been profitable for about a year now. In
fact, the secret of its success is that JUMPDISK Magazine itself was never
profitable and often operated in the red. The mild profit of the operation
always came from ancillary sales -- even the slender take on PD sales.
     In the good old days, I ploughed much back into the operation to keep
JUMPDISK looking good and supplied with spiffy content. The monthly bills at
times frightened me.
     JUMPDISK is the original Amiga disk magazine. I forget how many others
were published in the U.S. and Canada -- certainly more than 10. I didn't
worry when they came on the scene, because I knew from their prices --
generally the same as JUMPDISK'S -- that they could not long survive. I also
knew their unreasonable predictions of greatness, top-heavy staffing and, in
some cases, large ads, would sink them quickly. A sparkling exception was
Megadisc of Australia, whose editor Tim Strachan always understood how to
keep things bubbling along.
     Keeping quiet about the the realities was the closest I ever came to
cutthroat business policies. But who among the new publishers would have
believed me?
     
QUITTING GRACEFULLY
     JUMPDISK peaked three years ago. Its decline matched that of the Amiga
market and Commodore.
     When I realized the only way was down for the Amiga, I wrote a little
Basic program that figured the dollar amount I owed subscribers if I bought
myself out of the situation. The total was staggering.
     I've been running that program every month after shipping issues.
Through attrition, the total has dropped considerably and is now within a
manageable range.
     Strange to say, but I am not displeased when the subscriber list falls,
since it means a corresponding drop in my debt to you. There are no longer
profits from ancillary sales.
     I don't know how, but JUMPDISK has continued for quite some time in
this delicate balancing act of working off debt. Along the way, costs have
been cut when needed.
     And now, by January I think the subscriber list will be sufficiently
small that the two-disk-per-month plan can continue without undue strain
until either everything is fulfilled or the final few subscribers can be
refunded the bits owed them.
     There you have it -- a brand new plan for ending a magazine -- going to
the not-so-bitter end.
     See you next month.

END OF TEXT
