Here's a statement from Dan Sullivan concerning the incredible shrinking
AW. Please post everywhere and anywhere you deem appropriate. Many 
thanks, --Tim

-----------------------------------------------------

August 16. No Commodore Deal Yet.

While rumors abound that David Pleasance's Commodore UK Management Buy-out
was a done deal, that's not the case. We talked with Pleasance last night
in London, and he doesn't expect a decision until the end of the first week
of September. His bid is in, his financial backing is in order, and he
makes his final presentation this week in the US before the liquidators and
Commodore's creditors. 

He is, however, very confident that his bid will carry a lot of weight
because it is for the entire company and product line--not solely for the
technology, or a portion of the inventory, or for part of the operation.
However, CEI, Samsung, Philips, and maybe one or two others are still in
the picture, so it will be a few more weeks before any decision is made. 

On another matter: AmigaWorld has taken some hits lately because the size
of the magazine has shrunk over the last few issues. No kidding?
Everyone--most notably the developers and vendors who advertise in our
pages--is stressed out over the Commodore liquidation. Most are holding
their wallets pretty tight and reluctant to invest their advertising
dollars until this situation gets resolved. 

When advertising dwindle, so do the editorial pages. Overspending your
budget for three or four issues in a row during times like these is akin to
financial suicide. Since AmigaWorld plans to be around for a good long
while, we have to avoid those kinds of mistakes. Nobody, including us,
likes to be in this position--but if you want to be around in the long run,
you have to endure the lean times with the fat. 

When the dust settles and things start moving again in the Amiga market,
we'll be able to quickly beef up the size of the book. Lets hope Mr.
Pleasance or another pro-Amiga group like his gets things rolling again
soon. When that happens, AmigaWorld is committed to help the new owners
jumpstart the process. 

Dan Sullivan 

Editor-in-Chief 
