          Three-Way Merger Creates Desktop Video "Super Company"

        August 17th, Sacramento, CA - A merger between three desktop video
pioneers was announced today.  The companies are Digital Creations, Progressive
Image Technology, and a group of eight senior staff members who left Video
Toaster maker NewTek earlier this year.  Working seperately the three groups
launched and dominated the successful desktop video market on the Amiga
computer.  By joining forces the companies have set their sights on redefining
the desktop video market for PC compatible computers.

The new company, Play Incorporated,will be headed by Mike Moore as Chairman,
Paul Montgomery, as President, and John Botteri, as CEO.  "Between the three
groups we've shipped over 50 products" said Botteri, "Each of us has dominated
in our own area: hardware, software, and marketing.  Together, we will be the
leader in PC video."

The Progressive Image Technology team, led by Mike Moore and including former
Grass Valley Group engineering talent, began creating hardware for personal
computer in 1978.  Progressive has been a pioneer in computer video since the
early eighties when they engineered desktop video products for both IBM and
Apple.  Since then Progressive has designed many successful video peripherals
including video effects hardware, overlay cards, genlocks, digitizers, and time
base correctors.

Digital Creations, headed by John Botteri, has been a leader in video
applications on the Amiga since 1986.  In addition to marketing and writing the
applications software for all of Progressive's desktop video products, Digital
Creations developed three breakthrough video paint systems.  Exploiting the
expertise in real-time graphics, Digital also created several award-winning
entertainment titles for Electronic Arts.

The group from NewTek includes former Vice-President Paul Montgomery as well as
NewTek's former directors of sales, marketing, and software development.  The
group also includes key software engineers from the Emmy-award winning Toaster
team and Kiki Stockhammer, the industry's best-known spokesperson.  "Helping
create the Video Toaster and with it the desktop video industry, was a
fantastic seven year adventure," commented Montgomery, "Now we've found the
perfect partners to take the desktop video revolution to the next level".  Play
is owned entirely by its employees and is debt-free.  The new company is based
in Sacramento, California and will begin shipping the first of its PC video
products within 90 days.

(note - Progressive Image Tech. is the company who manufactured
most if not all of Digital Creations' hardware products, such as
DCTV, etc.)
