>To: harv@cup.portal.com
>Date: Fri, 19 Aug 94 8:57:19 EDT
>From: "Dale L. Larson" <dale@iam.iam.com>
>Reply-To: dale@iam.com
>X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.3 PL11 913261353]
Message-Id: <777301040.AA7652@iam.iam.com>
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 5215

[In case there is some place prominent on portal to post such announcements,
I thought I'd get this announcement to you.  BTW, portal gets a good mention
in the book, mostly quoted from the blurb AR carries re: portal.  I don't 
have the time and money to visit all of the services myself, but wanted 
to try to mention the ones where I know there are active Amiga sections.]

                     INTANGIBLE ASSETS MANUFACTURING
                                ANNOUNCES

                           "Connect Your Amiga!
         A Guide to the Internet, LANs, BBSs and Online Services"

                            ISBN 1-885876-02-5


The long-awaited book by Dale L. Larson (published by IAM) is finished.
Special discounts are available for early orders.

"Connect Your Amiga!" is 256 pages packed with information for networking and
for going online. From background information for the novice to networking
hints and tips for advanced users, this book has something for every Amiga
owner.

Some of the topics covered include:

  ABOUT THE INTERNET: What it is, what's so great about it, how it works,
  how to access it, how to join it, how to use it.

  ABOUT TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Selecting and using modems and terminal
  emulator software; how to find and choose computer bulletin board
  systems and online services; finding, downloading, decompressing and
  using public domain and shareware software.

  ABOUT NETWORKING HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE: the SANA-II standard, Ethernet,
  ARCNet, serial and parallel ports, selecting, configuring and using TCP/IP,
  SLIP, PPP, Envoy, DECNet, connecting to PCs, Macs and Unix, and more.

The author is an expert on the Amiga and on computer networking. Mr.
Larson was a Software Engineer in Commodore's Amiga Networking Group. He
worked on AS225, is one of the principle authors of both the SANA-II
Network Device Driver Specification and the original Amiga Envoy
specification documents, and has published several articles about the
Amiga and about Amiga networking.

"Cool!"
   -Dave Haynie
   Senior Systems Engineer, Scala, Inc.
   (former Senior Hardware Engineer, Commodore-Amiga, Inc.)

"You wouldn't lock your kid in its room, all alone, with nobody to talk
to. So why do that to your Amiga? Dale Larson's guide is the on-ramp you
can use to get your Amiga cruising on the Information Superhighway."
   -Denny Atkin
   Associate Editor, Omni Magazine
   Author, "Denny Atkin's Best Amiga Tips and Secrets"
   (former Editor, COMPUTE's Amiga Resource)

"This should be a great resource for the Amiga user. Until now, it has
always been difficult to locate information regarding networking an Amiga."
   -Richard Gerber, Ph.D.
   Astrophysicist, NASA Ames Research Center


"Clear, concise, and supportive."
   -Janet McIlvaine
   Administrative Coordinator, Transplant
   Lankenau Hospital and Medical Research Center

"Jammin'"
   -Mike Rivers
   (former Technical Editor, Commodore Magazine)


AVAILABILITY
The book is at the printer's and will begin shipping from IAM directly to
customers in late September.  It should be on dealer and bookstore shelves by
November.

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW AND GET SPECIAL DISCOUNTS
Connect Your Amiga! is $24.95 plus shipping and handling. Orders paid by
check or money order received before September 20, 1994, will get free
domestic or international shipping and handling via book rate! For US Priority
Mail, add $2, for international Air Mail, add $7. After September 20, shipping
and handling is $5 for book rate (domestic or international), $8 for Priority
Mail and $13 for Air Mail,

All orders under the special advanced order discounts must be paid in advance
with a check payable on a US or Canadian bank in US dollars, or with a US or
international postal money order in US dollars. IAM will accept Visa and
Mastercard orders after the pre-order discount offer expires.

AMIGA ENVOY SOFTWARE
If you pay for your book order by September 20, 1994, you may also order Amiga
Envoy software at the same time for the special discount price of $35 with free
shipping and handling (total price for book and software: $59.95).

T-SHIRTS
Order a "Connect Your Amiga!" T-shirt in black with color star-chart design
(from the cover of the book) and the words "Connect Your Amiga!" It's a great
way to identify you and your Amiga as citizens of cyberspace. Take it to your
local T-shirt shop and have your email address printed on the back! Please
specify size (and add $2 for XXL or $4 for XXXL). Price for small through XL
sizes: $14.95 (US shipping and handling is free with book order, add $5 for
shipping and handling with international orders which include book and T-shirt)
.

USER GROUP DISCOUNTS
User's Group Pricing is for orders paid with a single check or money order (ten
books minimum, shipping and handling not included, but free on orders paid by
October 15, 1994 -- email or call for Air Mail shipping rates on User's Group
orders): 10 to 24 books at 20% off or 25 or more books at 35% off.

COMPANY INFORMATION
(NOTE: Phone orders not accepted before September 20, 1994)

Intangible Assets Manufacturing
828 Ormond Avenue
Drexel Hill, PA  19026-2604
USA
voice: +1 610 853 4406
fax:   +1 610 853 3733

For more information: info@iam.com
