VICTIM OF HARASSMENT FIGHTS BACK.
GIANT SF LAW FIRM  ORRICK, HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE SUED FOR USE OF PERJURY
TO HARASS INNOCENT MAN ON BEHALF OF CONVICTED CRIMINAL.

PRESS RELEASE --  For Immediate Release:  September 7th, 1994
Contact: Lion Kuntz, 482 Hayes Street, San Francisco, CA, 94102.
Phone 415/863-1781,  internet E-Mail "Lion@cup.portal.com"

    In a "David & Goliath" battle, Lion Kuntz is defending himself against
the 275 lawyers of the mammoth San Francisco law firm of Orrick,
Herrington, and Sutcliffe.  The convicted criminal on probation, Alan
Kalbrofsky, enlisted the law giant to aid him in his campaign of
harassment against Kuntz in revenge for the court "Stay-Away"
(restraining) order evicting Kalbrofsky from a roommate situation.  What
makes lawyers harass innocent victims is unknown, as we are reminded from
the recent case of $7,125,000 judgement against another giant San
Francisco law firm whose lawyer-employee (sexually) harassed a person for
no comprehensible reason.  All that is known for sure is that lawyers
sometimes pick random victims in their equivalent of "drive-by violence"
of malicious prosecutions.
    The probationer Alan Kalbrofsky was convicted of arson of a
state-owned building through video tape recorded evidence and police
eye-witnesses.  Kalbrofsky was in the process of being prosecuted for
additional criminal acts committed inside the home of Lion Kuntz, and was
given a choice by the criminal court of either having his probation
revoked and spending his sentence in jail, or else accepting the criminal
court's order to stay-away and not further harass Lion Kuntz.  Kalbrofsky
found a way to evade the criminal court order through conning the
too-willing law firm into harassing Kuntz through multiple civil lawsuits
based on perjury.  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe became members of
Kalbrofsky's new criminal gang, knowingly and willingly using perjury in
direct contradiction of criminal court records.
    In defiance of the court order not to harass Kuntz, Orrick prepared a
case presenting Kalbrofsky as the innocent victim of a landlord "lockout",
deliberately and deceitfully concealing the fact that a criminal court
order locked Kalbrofsky permanently out.  Kalbrofsky smashed down the door
of the Kuntz residence during a time when he was a fugitive from a bench
warrant with a $10,000 bond on his head.  He, and his lawyers, perjurously
claimed that he had a lawful right to enter his former residence even
though the only place the law recognized he had a right and duty to be was
before the bench of a court of criminal law.  Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe will pay the price of public disgrace for lying.
    Because the criminal gang of Orrick and Kalbrofsky continue harassing
through perjury, Kuntz has resolved to enter "Verified Criminal Complaints
for Perjury" against Kalbrofsky, his lying attorney Robyn Smith (twice
reprimanded for concealing material facts by a judge in hearings in this
case), and the corporation of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe.  This will
occur at the hearing scheduled for September 12, 1994, in San Francisco
Civil Municipal Court, Department 6, 9:00 am at SF City Hall.  Reporters
and journalists are invited to be present at this place and time.
    Journalists needing to verify the facts of this press release are
invited to inspect court records, never appealed nor ever sustained on
appeal, which are the settled legal record of the true events.  This is
case # 1333147 of the San Francisco Criminal Municipal Court at the SF
Hall of Justice.  The contrary and perjurous claims put forth by Orrick
and Kalbrofsky can be visited at the SF Civil Municipal Court Clerk's
office at the SF City Hall, case # 102905.
    The possible use of video tape evidence (or printed still frame)
showing Kalbrofsky throwing a lighted torch road flare into an occupied
state office building in reckless disregard for human life can make the
public aware of the nature of the assailant Kalbrofsky.   Kalbrofsky's
arson was an act of political terrorism to intimidate the body politic to
change established policy.   It was a smaller version of the same kind of
act committed by the World Trade Center bombers.  A compelling human
interest story of the current methods used by criminals to attack citizens
through abuse of legal process needs to be told.  The public has a right
to know the latest twist in criminal harassment techniques which may
unexpectedly enter their into their life through the aid of lawyers
without honor, scruples or respect for the law and court orders.
