From: Julie Mueller <julie>
To: corp
Subject: PRESS RELEASE - NEW INSTANT INTERNET(TM) FEATURES THE PORTAL INFORMATI
ON NETWORK(TM)
Content-Length: 6354

THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK, INC.

Press Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
                                      Contacts: 
                                      
                                      Julie Mueller 
                                      The Portal Information Network 
				      408/973-9111

				      Laurie Windham
			              Windham/Lang Group 
				      415/563-4545

				      Donna Loughlin 
				      NetManage, Inc. 
				      408/973-7171






                      NEW INSTANT INTERNET(TM) 
            FEATURES THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK(TM) 
Access to Leading Internet Provider Pre-Programmed into NetManage's
           New Internet Chameleon(TM) Software Package

CUPERTINO, CALIF -- DECEMBER 7, 1994. The Portal Information
Network(TM), a leading provider of interactive network services,
announced today that it is featured in NetManage's new Internet
Chameleon software package.  Access to The Portal Information Network
is preprogrammed into Instant Internet(TM), an application within
Chameleon, so that users can automatically sign-up for a new Portal
Internet account.

Portal, an Internet service provider for more than nine years, focuses
exclusively on the dial-up Internet access. Its experience and focus
provides its end users and partners with the best worldwide coverage,
highly reliable, fast access and response, and the most affordable
prices in the industry.

"NetManage has addressed the issues that have traditionally made
Internet access difficult for most users," said John Little, Founder
President and CEO of The Portal Information Network.  "The instant
Portal sign-up feature greatly simplifies getting on to the Internet
and is especially effective at reaching the world wide web which is
rapidly becoming the `killer' Internet application."

After signing up for a new Portal account, users can instantly connect
directly to the Internet and use Internet Chameleon's suite of
applications including: the WebSurfer(TM), a worldwide web navigation
tool that allows users to browse multimedia documents on the Internet,
Archie, a popular graphical search tool, and Mail. A key convenience
featured of using the Portal Internet service is that users can opt to
have monthly service fees charged directly to their credit cards.

"Convenient Internet access is what Instant Internet is all about."
said Bob Williams, Vice President of Marketing, NetManage. "Portal's
worldwide coverage and high network availability are critical elements
to making the Internet a truly convenient and reliable communications
vehicle."

BEST WORLDWIDE COVERAGE

The Portal Information Network has the best worldwide coverage of any
Internet service provider. Portal is accessible through a local phone
call by an estimated 95% of the U.S.  population because of its
connections to a nationwide network of 1,100 local access numbers and
150,000modems. In addition, Portal is accessible from the public data
networks of about 100 countries. The benefit of Portal's worldwide
coverage strategy is overall lower cost to its end users. A recent
independent study by Clark Communications showed that Portal's
nationwide rates are, on average, 48% lower than NetCom, PSI and
UUNet.

HIGHLY RELIABLE, FAST ACCESS AND RESPONSE

The Portal Information Network gives its users and partners reliable,
fast access and response because of built-in system redundancy.
Portal's fault tolerant, client-server architecture, called the Portal
Interactive Platform, allows for automatic correction of hardware and
software failures without human intervention. The platform
automatically detects failed machines and reroutes traffic to
functioning machines.

As a result of Portal's Interactive Platform, Portal offers the best
network availability amoung the leaders in the industry. In the Clark
Communications study comparing frequency of successful network
connections among Portal, PSI and NetCom, Portal's network was
accessible 35% more often than its competitors 24 hours a day/seven
days a week. During peak network hours, such as weekday mornings,
Portal was available as much as 90% more often than the competition.

"The ultimate goal of the Portal Interactive Platform is that users can
always connect to the Internet, whenever they want," said Dave Labuda,
Vice President of Engineering, The Portal Information Network. "The
Clark Communications study validated that our engineering goals have
been realized and that we are achieving network availability far
superior to other industry players."

PRICING AND AVAILABILITY

Users of Instant Internet receive our standard low rates of $19.95 per
month and $2.95 per hour, plus a $25 rebate from The Portal Information
Network.  Internet Chameleon is available through Egghead and directly
through NetManage, Inc. For more information about Internet Chameleon,
call NetManage at 408/973-7171.

ABOUT THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK

The Portal Information Network is a leading provider of nationwide,
interactive network services, focused on offering dial-up Internet
access and customized networks to a broad range of markets via
strategic partnerships.

Historically, Portal has been an innovator in making electronic
communications more useful to all types of business and individuals.
Portal was first to offer commercial Internet mail gateway and
commercial Usenet access and was the first worldwide Internet access
provider to business and individual users. In addition, Portal was
first to provide an easy-to-use connection to the Internet, offering
email, Usenet, content management tools, chat and forums.

Today, Portal provides interactive network services through its Portal
Internet Family(TM) of dialup services and its Custom Network Services.
Founded in 1985, The Portal Information Network is privately-held and
headquartered in Cupertino, California.

                               # # # 

The Portal Information Network is a registered trademark of Portal
Information Network, Inc. Portal Internet Family, Portal Interactive
Platform, Portal Transaction Services and Portal Information
Architecture are trademarks of Portal Information Network, Inc., and
should be treated as such. All other brands and products are trademarks
or registered trademarks of their respective holders and should be
treated as such.
