To: corp
Subject: PRESS RELEASE:  Custom Network Services
Content-Length: 8166

THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK, INC.

Press Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
				      Contacts: 
				      Julie Mueller
				      The Portal Information Network
				      408/973-9111

				      Laurie Windham
				      Windham/Lang Group
			      	      415/563-4545

				      Tiffany Fuller
				      Catapult Entertainment, Inc.
				      408/366-1735








             THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK(TM) ANNOUNCES
               AVAILABILITY OF CUSTOM NETWORK SERVICES
           Strategic Expansion of Internet Service Business


CUPERTINO, CALIF. - DECEMBER 7, 1994. The Portal Information Network, a
leading provider of interactive network services, today announced its
offering of Custom Network Services, a range of services and
technologies designed to facilitate the creation of "private label"
networks. The new service offering represents a strategic expansion of
Portal's traditional Internet service provider business. Catapult
Entertainment, Inc. is one of the first customers of Portal's new
Custom Network Services.

With Custom Network Services, Portal works with its customers to apply
its proprietary technologies to unique network solutions. Portal's
Custom Network Services include technologies and services for providing
nationwide network connections, transaction processing, credit card
authorization and billing, account administration and customer
tracking. A unique element of Portal's technology strategy is its
points-of-presence coverage. Through Portal, 95% of the U.S. population
can access the network with a local phone call. This means that by
working with Portal, companies implementing a private label network
have easy access to customers, nationwide.

"Providing interactive network services requires many layers of complex
technology and expertise. Successfully executing on all those
requirements is a daunting task for any company. Portal has chosen to
focus on the core interactive network technology components that
leverage our years of experience in providing Internet access," John
Little, Founder, President and CEO, The Portal Information Network. "Our
partners add their unique value in providing content, end user
interfaces and marketing know how to promote their networks to their
respective customers."

PARTNERSHIP WITH CATAPULT ENTERTAINMENT, INC.

Much of what Portal is offering as Custom Network Services was applied
as a part of a partnership with Catapult Entertainment, Inc., creators
of the XBAND(TM) Video Game Modem and Network for the Genesis(TM) and
Super NES(R) game platforms. Portal worked with Catapult in designing
the XBAND Network, and currently provides local network access in all
Catapult's markets, links players together, processes transactions,
manages the customer data base and supports and maintains the network.

"Catapult is pleased to be working with Portal to take advantage of
their technologies in networking, electronic communications, and
transaction processing," said Adam Grosser, President and CEO of
Catapult Entertainment, Inc.

Catapult's XBAND Video Game Modem and Network service is now shipping.
The company expects significant growth in the months ahead. In 1995,
the XBAND Network will support more than 500,000 active users and
handle tens of thousands of transactions per minute.

PRIVATE LABEL NETWORKS - AN EMERGING MARKET

As companies work to capture the potential in the emerging interactive
network services market and develop applications for consumer and
business users, they are faced with choices on how to implement the
network. Some are offering products and services via on-line service
providers. Others are evaluating ways to provide their own private
label network. For these companies, contracting with outside companies
such as Portal to provide network services is a viable alternative.

"Many companies have the marketing presence to have their own network.
But they have decided that internally developing the technical
competencies required to implement a network does not make strategic
business sense," said Dave Labuda, Vice President of Engineering, The
Portal Information Network. "We work with those companies to design the
optimal network. This gives them total control over the final product
and assures them that they have a network that will grow with their
business volume."

As a part of its new offering, Portal provides world wide web (www)
services. Customers of these new www services will be companies who
want to provide content via the www, but want to outsource operating
and maintaining the web site. By partnering with Portal, companies can
quickly get their information onto the www while reducing the cost of
entry.

PORTAL PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGIES

Portal has developed three core technology components which are applied
to custom network solutions: Portal Interactive Platform, Portal
Transaction Services and Portal Information Architecture.

The Portal Interactive Platform is a suite of highly optimized
communications technologies for fault-tolerant networks and access to
nationwide points of presence. The client-server platform is the
foundation for building an electronic information service and is
designed to scale quickly to handle increased customer, traffic and
transaction volume.

Portal's Transaction Services address the key functions in transaction
processing and customer management such as account creation and
administration, customer support and monitoring, invoicing, credit card
authorization and billing, and customer history tracking. To provide
maximum security, Portal has taken an end-to-end encryption approach,
where every byte of data transferred is secure. Its hierarchical access
list tightly monitors which users are allowed on the network and what
they are authorized to do. Combined with Portal's object-oriented
communications protocol, the hierarchical access list enables security
rules to be rapidly created and adjusted by the network administrator
and other designated people.

The Portal Information Architecture manages the information that is
stored in the Portal system and is based on a large-scale,
object-oriented, application built on top of an Oracle Corporation
database. The object-oriented design is key to enabling new
applications, users and transaction types to be rapidly implemented on
a custom network.

ABOUT THE PORTAL INFORMATION NETWORK

The Portal Information Network is a leading provider of nationwide,
interactive network services, focused on offering dial-up Internet
access and customized networks to a broad range of markets via
strategic partnerships. The company offers the broadest nationwide
network coverage available, enabling 95% of the U.S. population to
reach the network with a local call.

Portal has been an Internet Service provider since 1985. Historically,
Portal has been an innovator in making electronic communications more
useful to all types of business and individuals. Portal was first to
offer commercial Internet mail gateway and commercial Usenet access and
was the first worldwide Internet access provider to business and
individual users. In addition, Portal was first to provide an
easy-to-use connection to the Internet, offering email, Usenet, content
management tools, chat and forums.

Today, Portal provides interactive network services through its Portal
Internet Family of dial-up services and its Custom Network Services.
Founded in 1985, the Portal Information Network is privately-held and
headquartered in Cupertino, California.


                  # # #

The Portal Information Network is a registered trademark of The Portal
Information Network, Inc. Portal Internet Family, Portal Interactive
Platform, Portal Transaction Services and Portal Information
Architecture are trademarks of the Portal Information Network, Inc.,
and should be treated as such. XBAND is a trademark of Catapult
Entertainment, Inc. Super Nintendo Entertainment System is a registered
trademark of Nintendo of America Inc. Genesis is a trademark of Sega
Enterprises LTD. All Rights Reserved. All other brands and products are
trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders and
should be treated as such.
