This isn't really a press release.. it's one guy's impressions of what
he saw at the World of Amiga Show held recently in England.
Cross-posted from Usenet
-----
Path: portal.com!svc.portal.com!uunet!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!d
 emon!mailserver.aixssc.uk.ibm.com!si
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
From: si@mailserver.aixssc.uk.ibm.com (si)
Subject: World of Amiga Show accoring to Si!
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.3 PL3]
X-Posting-Host: [160.100.240.120]
Date: Mon, 12 Dec 1994 11:10:29 +0000
Message-ID: <66540.9412121110@red.aixssc.uk.ibm.com>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 348
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 18356
Portal-Location: 17311.3.20290.6


Hi ALL.
 
What follows is my description of the World of Amiga Show in London. I went
on Saturday 10th December and stayed for 5 1/2hrs. Anyone who doesn`t like
long posts, please skip this.


[Disclaimer: what follows is entirely my own thoughts and opinions]
           



              WORLD OF AMIGA SHOW - Wembley 9-11th December 1994
 

Big Thumbs up:    Cybervision64, Cyberstorm060, Photogenics

Thumbs up:        PC emulation on emplant

Thumbs down:      PicolloSD64.


Well, what a show. At first glance the show seemed to look a little bare but
in actual fact there was quite a lot going on. My first question to be 
answered was "does the PC emplant exist". I made it to the Blittersoft stand
and there was Jim Drew, a rather large CBM monitor and his emplant.

EMPLANT:

 Standing at the back of the crowd, I could just see the emplant up and running
 on Jim`s emplant+ warp 40/040+ picasso. At this time it was running rather
 nicely the MAC emulation - no big deal. After a patient wait, Jim shutdown 
 the Mac emulation (interestingly enough he was running V5.0 of the emulation
 and when he shutdown it asked him to insert his hard drive...... Then came
 the good part - the PC emulation. Jim clicked on a similar icon to the MAC
 startup icon and started up the PC emulation. The emulation went straight
 into the Ami-bios (which according to Jim is shipped with every version of
 PC-emplant). He showed that it recognised every bit of PC hardware. He then
 moved to the dos prompt and listed directories on the HD and then started 
 showing bench marks and testing programs. He showed that all the hardware
 test came up ok. The speed tests varied. One said that the processor was
 running at 0mhz, another showed it was a 286 running at ~20mhz (this was
 probably closer to the truth). I was desperate to see Windows but alas, the
 version Jim had with him didn`t have any VGA support and therefore no 
 Windows, or anything really good to show. I asked if he had dos apps to 
 show but he said no and that most people wanted to see benchmark programs.
 All in all the emulation seemed to be running well and quite fast. It was
 on a native Amiga screen and the updates were instant, but then the PC uses
 planar in 4bit colour and his machine did have a 68040/40mhz. I would say 
 everything seemed well. Jim pointed out that the emluation was runnning in
 interpreter mode and that the one that compiles will run a lot faster. He
 also said that when the PC emplant ships it will run DOOM. Now for the best
 bit, Jim gave an announcement on the realease date of the PC emplant:

  The PC emplant will start shipping, mid January (So Jim Drew says)!
 
 I asked Jim whether the PC emulation would run OS2/Warp and he said yes. I
 asked wether my OS2/Warp CDROM would install ok and he said yes! Oh, I 
 also asked whether the 586 emulation contained the fp bug from the pentium 
 :-), "no" was the reply.

 Some other interesting bits. Jim also had an emulation called ACE (atari 
 console emulation) which was a Atari 400/800 emulator. He had masses of 
 software on his hard drive and showed of a Lucasfilm demo. I asked why 
 this emulation wasn`t available yet as I love the Atari 800Xl and he said
 "the sprite collision isn`t working yet" and then he went on to say "oh,
 we have implented sprites at all", hmmm - pretty fundemental point I think.
 Anyway, it all looked good and I can`t wait to see that running on my 
 machine. He also had an Apple ][ emulation which was running games, the one
 I saw was galaxians. 

 Jim also announced that they are going to release the PC emulation for the
 PowerPC MACS at the same time as the Amigas one and that it would be 
 shipped with all new PowerMacs instead of softwindows - time will tell.

 Jim seemed to impress lots of people with what his emulation could do and 
 rightly so. I chuckled at one point though, when he was playing with
 photoshop and the MAC crashed, requiring a restart. 

 I never saw more than one emulation running at a time but I`ve read another
 post where a guy saw the Pc and Mac running at the same time. Overall at the
 end of this I got a plus on the feelgood factor for owning an emplant.


Picollo SD64:

 On the same stand they had the Picollo SD64 which was running on a Warped
 A4000. I don`t know why but they only had it displaying on a 14" monitor
 and I had a play. The Workbench was only running in 8 colours and an attempt
 to change that to 256 colours failed as there was something running which 
 couldn`t be quit. I was then shown a 256 colour graphics program and had a 
 play with that. I was very dissapointed. It was a small screen running in 
 256 colours and when I moved just a small window containg a picture it 
 seemed very slow and I could see the redraw. I was then shown the viewer on
 an EGS default screen and things seemed a lot faster. Overall though things
 didn`t seem that impressive. Strangely enough Blittersoft weren`t making a
 big thing of the board. Maybe the software requires some tweaks, possibly the
 256 colour screen was running in Planar mode? 



Next was on to the Gordon Harwood Stand where Phase5 were showing off two
new products the Cybervison64 and the Cyberstorm 060. 


Cybervison64:

 Phase5 had the Cybervision running on a 040/40mhz machine with a 20" Apple
 trinitron display. They were showing a Workbench screen in 1024x768 256 
 colours but they had the workbench set to 1024x1536 so it would
 annonyingly scroll as you reached the bottom of the screen, however it 
 scrolled with ease. The speed of this card was very nice. I moved windows
 around with ease and all in a 1024x768 - 256 colour environment. The screens
 were all dragable, and at one point I had 3 screen all at the same time. 
 Unfortunately, the software still mucks up the palettes between screens. It
 would be nice if the software could alter the palettes of background screens
 to "best match" colours from the palette of the front screen. The
 demonstrator loaded up ProPage4 to show me the speed of the text in that
 environment. He set the screen to 256 colours, zoomed in on the text and you
 could move round the document with ease, in fact the text flied by. There was
 a big problem here, though. Half of the text didn`t get displayed for some
 reason. The German demonstrator said that they knew about this and it wasn`t
 just a problem with their boards but ProPage seems to much up a few of the 
 RTG boards around. I don`t use ProPage but if you do, check out the problem 
 before considering a purchase. The price of this 64 bit graphics card:
 299 UK pounds ~=$450 US. Howeveri, if you ordered one at the show or asked to
 be sent details you could get the board for 285 UK Pounds. The board will be
 available in Febuary and ships with 2megs of ram, upgradeable to 4megs. It
 will do 1280x1024 in 8bit and 800x600 in 24bit all non interlaced. Comes with
 a pass through connector as well. I filled in a form for details of the 
 board when it is available.


Cyberstorm 060:

 The cyberstorm 060 was on display for everyone to see, there was one in the
 machine and one outside. The Cyberstorm 060 is just the same as the 040 
 Cyberstorm except for the CPU Module part (The basic Cyberstorm comes in 3
 bits). They were just running animations which were running at high speed. I
 asked to play with the workbench and that I did. Not much to see here. They
 didn`t have any apps so I couldn`t really see the thing perform in real life
 but they did have AIBB running and that was flying through the tests such as
 the beach ball etc. Overall I think it showed the machine to be running 
 about 3-4 times that of the A4000/040 but it could have been more. Obviously
 code written for the 060 would run a lot faster but then the Amiga`s OS isn`t
 written for 060 so we can stay with the basic speed. Overall though, the
 cyberstorm gave a very good impression. The machine seemed fast and the
 bench marks showed the machine running extremely fast. They have bench
 marking figures which show the A4000 at 15.4mips and the 060 at 82.19 mips.
 This is, however, for a 10million iteration program. If it is only using the
 same instruction then the speed will be a little false as this would only 
 show the speed of execution inside the chips cache. Sysinfo showed the 
 board running at 39.85 mips (A4000/040- 19.1 mips). Real world tests with
 AdPro, Imagine and lightwave all showed the board to run 3-4 times that of
 the A4000. Memory reads and writes are also about 4X the speed of a stock 
 A4000/040. Considering that the Cyberstorm runs 040/40 runs about 2X the 
 speed of a stock A4000/040 (except for memory access which is a lot faster)
 you can get an idea of the speed you will see. 

 The literature pointed out that Bench mark programs do not run correctly
 on the 060. 

 Everything seemed to be running ok on the Cyberstorm and there were no 
 crashes. 

 Now for the good part. The Cyberstorm will be released in Febuary (Motorolla
 willing) and will be intially released with a 50mhz part as shown at the
 show (a 80mhz version will follow). The cost of this little speed demon:
 1000 UK pounds - ~=$1500 US. Now this is 200 pounds, ~=$300 less than the
 cost of the current Warp 040/40mhz although the board does lack scsi-2. I
 was told that the scsi-2 option (basically the same technology as the
 fastlane) will cost 200 UK pounds. For those ordering at the show, the price
 was 950 pounds for the card.
  

Photogenics:

 Next was another piece of amazing software. Photogenics is a brand new 
 image manipulation program from Alamthera in the UK. Primarily written by a
 guy called Paul Nolan (who I met) it basically takes images and you can apply
 various operations to them (such as blur, tint, etc). There are loads of
 operations that can be done. The program can loads a wide variety of formats
 including Jpeg & gif, it can also create Plasma and ripple images. The best
 part is that the program is designed to work with 2 images. You can load one
 as a primary and one as a secondary and then do all sorts of weird operations
 to merge the two together and rub through etc. The program primarily works
 in a superbly fast Ham-8 mode and all the pictures are kept in their own 
 windows. The speed at which this program works is superb and the speed at 
 which the windows dynamically resize is quite amazing. I went to a full
 demonstration by Joylon Ralph and I was so impressed with the demonstration
 and also when I got to play with the program that I bought a copy. It sells
 for 54.95 UK Pounds ~= $83 US. Although at the show it was available for
 49.95 pounds with a free tee-shirt. See later for my impression of the
 program once I got it home.


Theatre:

 I went to two sessions at the Amiga Theatre. The first was for Photogenics
 and Joylon Ralph managed to impress all with this wonderful program. His 
 A1200 did crash when he loaded photgenics :-) the first time. It`s never 
 crashed for me however.
 
 The second session I went to was a "meet the developers" thing. Jim Drew,
 a guy who worked on an interesting gadget for the CD32, Joylon Ralph and a
 guy from Digita. The guy from Digita didn`t impress me much as he had more
 to say about the PC/Windows than he did the Amiga. He said the only software
 company out there was Microsoft and that we have to face reality. I like to
 think that photogenics was more reality although this will be ported to the
 MAC and PC. Joylon said that a professional version of Photogenics would be
 available next year. Jim was asked several questions about the PC emplant
 and gave some very good answers as he always does. He mentioned that they
 do have a multiprocessor accelerator board that they will resume work on but
 they need more employees and they can`t seem to get enough. He mentioned 
 later that they only have 2 working 060 processors. The guy who had produced
 a widgit was a cheery sole. He was from Canada and his widget is used for 
 interactive banking and other things. Apparently his company, TVI, has sold
 1,000 CD32`s to a Canadian Bank for customer use. One of the news articles
 that I read said they were testing the project with 100 of the banks 
 customers and if this went well then it would be offered to all 200 thousand
 of their customers -here`s hoping. 

 They were asked an interesting question. What would you do with 12 million 
 UK Pounds. I think Joylon wanted to spend some and retire. Jim Drew who 
 claims he can retire a rich man now said that 12 million was a hell of a lot
 and that he could make good use of it. He said that these days you could
 turn hardware out in a day, make changes and have a new board out the next
 day. He also mentioned that 1000 square feet pre employee at West Chester was
 a waste. In fact, thinking back, Jim had a lot to say, in fact he never 
 stopped talking the whole time I saw him. I think he likes the Amiga.

 On thing they all seemed united on was that the Amiga has a fantastic OS and
 that they love using it. The guy from TVI said that all his employees use
 Amigas. Jim said that the work for the Mac PC emplant was primarily done on
 the emplant MAC module.


Other Stuff:

 One other thing Jim mentioned was that they asked Adobe if they could UU could
 port Adobe Photoshop for free to which Adobe declined. UU then demanded that
 they port it and Adobe refused. Adobe said that they have loads of patents
 on their opertations in the program and they don`t want the code ported.

 Keiron Summer? was showing an Indian guy the emplant and talking about the
 Indian Government. The guy was impressed with the emplant but then I think
 Jim could have done a good job at selling ZX81`s at the show.

 Ramiga were at the show with lots of Amiga equipment although there stand
 made it quite difficult to enter. I didn`t spend much time here. I did notice
 that they had rather a lot of Super Buster Chips Rev11 for 19.95 UK pounds.

 Villiage Tronic had a big stand but as the Cybervision was on display I 
 didn`t spend much time looking at their products. They and many other stands
 were displaying an awful lot of OS3.1 kits. 

 There were bargains to be had with CDROM`s. In fact there were a lot of CDROMS
 to be bought. For the CD32 you could buy Guardian for 10 pounds.  
 
 Newtek were there, well sort of. There was 1 guy with a projector.

 One star of the show was a video of "The Wrong Trousers" playing direct from
 a hard drive with DPS and the personal animation recorder.

 Hisoft had a new version of Twist, Twist 2 which is a relational database.
 It looked quite good. I asked them about a C++ upgrade to SASC but they 
 didn`t know much about it and asked me to phone the office on Monday.

 ICL were selling warranties.

 Paragon had the new CD32 Gamer out with a full game on the cover - Lamborghini
 Challenge - 10 UK Pounds.
 
 White Knight seemed to have a low key stand which suprised me. They sell a 
 lot of products but were concentrating on the Digital Broadcaster. This may
 have been due to their recent move. 


 
Conclusion

Well, as I said at the start, the show seemed a little bare but there was lots
of new stuff to see and drool over. The show did seem a little unprofessional
but then money is tight at the moment. From what I could see and hear, CBM
were making sure that they spoke to all the right people e.g. Jim Drew and
Phase5. They were also trying to impress what seemed some big customers.

One thing I did pick up from the Americans at the show, that we would all be
better off if CEI did not get the Amiga. I`ve heard this before actually 
from other sources and someone pointed out that we only ever hear from Alex
and that he never says no. Joylon Ralph said that they haven`t returned any
of their calls or faxes. Now I`m no fan of CBM UK but I came away from the
show not knowing what to think. I do know that at the moment nothing is 
happening so whatever happens can`t be worse than nothing.



Photogenics - what is it like:

 Well I got photogenics home and I couldn`t get it to run. The registration
 number given was wrong. As it turned out it required an extra digit. I must
 have spent about 1/2hr trying to figure it out. I tried several combinations
 and discovered that the requestor would take 1 more digit than the length of
 my number. I managed to get in my adding a 3 to the end of the registration
 number. 

 I loaded the program and as I have an A4000/030/ 25mhz (the machine at the 
 show was a 50mhz 030) and I was running a dblpal screen (my monitor 
 doesn`t sync down to 15khz) the program was running quite a bit slower than
 the demostration at the show. However after a few hours I was starting to 
 have some fun. It does appear however, that whatever resolution you goto
 the images still display in a low res ham8 format. The resolution of the 
 real picture is kept though. It would be nice if you could display the 
 pictures at their real resolutions.

 I had some great fun with the ascii saver although it seems to create pictures
 which are twice the height they should be so you have to reduce the height of
 your image before saving.

 Some of the run through effects are great and there are several different 
 brushes such as spray can, pastel, felt tip pen and pencil. If you`re looking
 for a fun image manipulation program with lots of effects than this could be
 for you.

 The program stores all images in 24bit in memory and dispays in ham8. I did 
 find that this seemed to degrade my Ham8 pictures when redisplaying them.
 
 The number of loaders is extensive, including jpeg, iff, gif, iff-deep, cdxl
 and also Photo CD pictures :-).

 If you have a stock A1200 this program will run slowly. I would start off 
 with at least a 25mhz 030. 

 At 55 pounds this program is a steal and a hell of a lot of good fun. If 
 you want to add some effects to your pictures easily then this is a good
 tool. With the program being this good the proffessional version should be
 really good.



This is Si (Simon) signing out. Please email me if you want to discuss any of
the above. I have the product sheet on the Cyberstorm 060 and Cybervision64.

Si.  
-- 
______________________________________________________________________________
 si@mailserver.aixssc.uk.ibm.com      "I`m unique in the respect I`m not You"
