Path: portal.com!svc.portal.com!sdd.hp.com!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.
 net!gatech!newsfeed.pitt.edu!uunet!newstf01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: granger@aol.com (Granger)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.advocacy
Subject: Commodore's Toxic Legacy
Date: 12 Jan 1995 22:46:43 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 73
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3f4t33$da@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
Reply-To: granger@aol.com (Granger)
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 3146
Portal-Location: 17267.3.9837.4

GMT Gets EPA Approval to Reopen Polluted Semiconductor Plant By Michelle
Conlin and John J. Fried, The Philadelphia Inquirer  Knight-Ridder/Tribune
Business News  

PHILADELPHIA--Jan. 11--A company with an eye on the polluted Commodore 
Semiconductor Superfund Site in Lower Providence has won EPA's blessing to
 reopen it.  

GMT Microelectronics, a firm started by former Commodore employees, paid
$1 million to EPA for the cleanup and promised to pay $100,000 more per
year for up to 30 years to cover cleanup costs.  

In exchange for the up to $4 million, GMT will not be liable for any
further costs of cleaning up the former Commodore Computer site, which was
designated a federal Superfund site in 1989.  

George Giansanti, company president, and Peter Kostmayer, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency regional administrator, announced the deal
 Tuesday.  

"We're avoiding using more farmland and countryside, and concentrating 
development where it belongs," Kostmayer said. The deal, he said, "will
create 150 good-paying, taxpaying jobs."  

President Clinton has pledged to help industry find ways to use facilities
which, previously, had been unmarketable because of potential liabilities
for cleaning up pollutants left by former owners.  

The Superfund law makes purchasers just as liable for cleanup costs as the
party that contaminated a site. Congress may revise the liability scheme
this year.  

Critics say making new owners responsible for old environmental ills 
discourages cleaning up the abandoned sites and spurs businesses to gobble
up  farmland.  

The suburbs have plenty of dirty land, too. In fact, Montgomery County
ranks number one in the number of Superfund sites among five Southeastern 
Pennsylvania counties.  

GMT, like Commodore, will make integrated computer circuits, the 
fingernail-sized brains of computers.  

When they saw Commodore sinking into bankruptcy last spring, some
employees pooled their resources and hatched a plan to buy the facility
for $6 million and manufacture their own integrated circuits.  

There was only one hitch. The 14-acre campus was soaked with toxic
solvents that had leaked from underground storage tanks.  

Kostmayer pointed to the deal announced Tuesday as the perfect marriage of
environmental cleanup and job creation.  

The Commodore cleanup strategy comes on the heels of another similar
landmark deal announced last month that will allow Thomas Holt Sr. to
transform the old Publicker Industries whiskey distillery, which sprawls
north of the Walt Whitman Bridge, into a port facility that he hopes will
rival New York's.  

It took Holt seven years of lobbying to hash out that deal. In Montgomery
County, County Commissioner Mario Mele, state representative John Lawless,
Kostmayer and GMT officials worked for nine months to push the Commodore
site deal through. All said at Tuesday's news conference that they would
like it to be a harbinger of arrangements to come.  

"We want to make sure this continues the renaissance of new job creation
in the county," Mele said. 


Transmitted: 95-01-11 03:26:40 EST

Posted by Mark Granger
granger@aol.com
