Here's some interesting stats on the Internet from Matrix News,
as carried by Clarinet here on Portal:
-----

Path: portal.com!svc.portal.com!bass!looking!decwrl!decwrl!newspump.wustl.e
 du!noc.near.net!lll-winken.llnl.gov!ames!hookup!news.sprintlink.net!sun.cai
 s.com!news.iac.net!news.intercon.com!zilker.net!zilker.net!not-for-mail
From: mids@mids.org
Newsgroups: clari.matrix_news
Subject: MIDS Press Release: New Data on the Size of the Internet and the
  Matrix
Date: 13 Jan 1995 13:35:13 -0600
Organization: Zilker Internet Park, Austin TX
Lines: 155
Sender: jsq@zilker.net
Approved: jsq@tic.com (John S. Quarterman)
Message-ID: <3f6klh$o2p@oak.zilker.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: oak.zilker.net
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 6833
Portal-Location: 28415.3.87.1

MIDS Press Release: New Data on the Size of the Internet and the Matrix

How many people use the Internet?  Businesses make decisions based on
answers to this question, and governments decide programs on them.

The survey.

Starting 15 October 1994, Matrix Information and Directory Services and
Texas Internet Consulting sent survey questionnaires by electronic mail
to most of the domains representing organizations on the Internet, and
we tabulated responses received through 15 December 1994.  We received
1468 usable responses and used them to estimate the sizes of the
Internet and the Matrix as of October 1994.

These are estimates, not exact and definitive figures.  However, they
are based on a large sample of the organizations (companies, universities,
governmental agencies, individuals, etc.) on the Internet.  Comparing
the domain names of the responses with those of the original survey
list, we calculate a confidence interval of about 38 percent.  These
are the only estimates of the size of the Internet that, so far as we
know, have associated any confidence interval at all.

The estimates.

Different people mean different things when they refer to the Internet.
To avoid confusion, we provide definitions along with our estimates.

For the Core Internet, we estimate 7,800,000 users (people) of 278,000
computers that can *provide* interactive services such as TELNET
(remote login), FTP (file transfer) or WWW (hypertext), as of October 1994.

For the Consumer Internet, we estimate 13.5 million users of 389,000
computers that can *use* the interactive services supplied by the core
Internet, for example people who can use Mosaic or Lynx to browse the
World Wide Web, as of October 1994.

For the Matrix, we estimate 27.5 million users who can exchange electronic
mail with other users in the Matrix, as of October 1994.

The Internet and the Matrix.

These categories fit inside each other: the Matrix includes the Consumer
Internet, which includes the Core Internet.

``It's like those Russian dolls,'' said John S. Quarterman, editor of
Matrix News and Matrix Maps Quarterly, ``where you open up Yeltsin and
find Gorbachev, and inside Gorbachev is Brezhnev.''

To find which category fits you, apply these simple tests:

If you can send mail to an address in the Matrix, such as mids@tic.com,
you're in the Matrix.

If you can connect with FTP to ftp.ripe.net, or use Mosaic or Lynx
to reach http://www.ripe.net, you are in the Consumer Internet.

If your computer runs an FTP, TELNET, Gopher, WWW, or other interactive
server that users outside your own organization (your company, university,
etc.) can use, then you're in the Core Internet.

The most important distinction is between the Matrix and the Internet.
Mail is the simplest and most widely used network service, both on the
Internet and on other networks.  But it is not the distinctive
characteristic of the Internet, since most other networks have it,
too.  The Internet's interactive services, supported by its TCP/IP
protocols, are what distinguish it from other networks.  You can access
many of those services by mail, even including FTP, Gopher, and WWW,
but that's a completely different level of convenience, speed, and
utility than using them interactively over the Internet itself.

``WWW by mail is like shopping by mail order catalog,''
said Quarterman, ``while the Internet is like a big shopping mall.''

Where other networks fit.

What about UUCP, FidoNet, WWIVnet, and BITNET?  They're all
in the Matrix.  These networks are not part of the Internet,
although some of their hosts are.  We counted their users in
our estimate of the size of the Matrix.

What about Prodigy, CompuServe, Nifty-Serve, PC-VAN, AT&T Mail, GEnie,
Sprint-Mail, Easy-Link, MCI Mail, and Tymnet?  Those ten systems (and
quite a few others like them) are all in the Matrix, but not yet on the
Internet.  We have counted the users of these systems in our estimate
for the Matrix.  Some of them are moving towards letting their users
use interactive Internet services, and when they do, we will start
counting those that do as part of the Consumer Internet.

A few similar centralized systems, such as AOL, Delphi, and BIX, already
let their users use interactive Internet services, and are therefore
on the Internet, and we counted their users in our Consumer Internet
user estimate.  Some of these three systems may actually be in the
Core Internet, but until we're sure we are counting them as being
in the Consumer Internet.

Growth and dates.

The exact size of the Internet can only be estimated, but one thing
that is known for sure by many different measurements is that the
Internet is growing exponentially, approximately doubling in size each
year, and has been doing so for at least the past six years now.  Each
year there are as many new people on the Internet as all the people on
the Internet the year before.  That's why it is important to cite a
date for any estimate of the size of the Internet.  Our estimates here
are for October 1994.

``Here today, lots more tomorrow.'' said Quarterman, ``We'll
be measuring it as it grows.''

About MIDS:

Matrix Information and Directory Services (MIDS) conducts ongoing
investigations about the size, shape, and other characteristics of
the Internet and other networks in the Matrix.  MIDS publishes the
monthly newsletter Matrix News and the color Matrix Maps Quarterly,
both on paper and online, and also sells maps and other information.
Smoot Carl-Mitchell is President of MIDS and Managing Editor of its
publications.  John S. Quarterman is Editor of both publications,
and Eric McKinney is Assistant Editor.

About TIC:

Texas Internet Consulting (TIC) consults in networks and open systems
with particular emphasis on TCP/IP networks, UNIX systems and standards.
TIC is a partnership, and was founded by Smoot Carl-Mitchell and John
S. Quarterman.

About the principals:

Quarterman and Carl-Mitchell have written three books together:
  The E-Mail Companion: Communicating Effectively via the Internet and
     Other Global Networks, 1994.
  The Internet Connection: System Connectivity and Configuration, 1994
  Practical Internetworking with TCP/IP and UNIX, 1993.

Quarterman is a co-author of two other books:
  UNIX, POSIX, and Open Systems: The Open Standards Puzzle, 1993.
  The Design and Implementation of the 4.3BSD UNIX Operating System, 1989.
and sole author of one:
  The Matrix: Computer Networks and Conferencing Systems Worldwide, 1990.

For more information contact:

John S. Quarterman
Editor, Matrix News and Matrix Maps Quarterly
telephone: +1-512-451-7602
fax: +1-512-452-0127
mids@tic.com

http://www.tic.com, gopher://gopher.tic.com, ftp://ftp.tic.com

Matrix Information and Directory Services, Inc. (MIDS)
1106 Clayton Lane, Suite 500W
Austin, TX 78723
U.S.A.
