Path: portal.com!svc.portal.com!bass!looking!newsbytes
From: newsbytes@clarinet.com (NB-MSP)
Newsgroups: clari.nb.online
Subject: Spammers Strike Again On Internet 02/09/95
Keywords: Bureau-MSP, NEWS
Date: 9 Feb 95 20:41:50 GMT
Message-ID: <NB950209.15@clarinet.com>
Approved: cn@clarinet.com
Lines: 51
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 2664
Portal-Location: 32811.3.389.1

NEW YORK, NEW YORK, U.S.A., 1995 FEB 9 (NB) -- Internet users call 
it spamming. It's the simultaneous sending of the same message to 
multiple Usenet newsgroups, the area of the Internet where people 
enter free discussions on thousands of different topics, and it
has happened again.

If you mention spamming to most Internet users one name comes to mind 
- Canter and Siegel. The New York based lawyers first hit the 
newsgroups a couple of years ago with advertisments for their green 
card immigration service and caused a massive reaction from the Usenet 
users who resented commercial messages cluttering up their groups.

Since then both sides have fine tuned the process with Canter and 
Siegel forming Cyber Sell to market their service to other companies 
and one user, calling himself the Cancelmoose, developing complex 
software that automatically cancels out these messages on computers 
across the world.

This morning Canter and Siegel hit again - big time. In the early 
hours of the morning a message advertising credit record clearance 
lawyers was sent out to almost everyone of the 10,000 newsgroups that 
make up the system. If you logged on this morning and found a message 
titled "<ad> GUARANTEED CREDIT REPAIR BY LAW FIRM" you'll know what 
we mean, but they didn't stop with just the conventional groups.

By adding special lines specifying the message had been "approved" they 
managed to fool most software into sending it to moderated groups. 
These are special groups that require one person in charge to approve 
the posting before it is sent out and is a way of controlling what 
people see in the group and making only relevant messages available.. 
These areas are normally set aside for important announcements but even 
they fell to this latest trick. The system's equivalent of a 911 
channel - news.announce.important - was even hit. That group only 
carries a few messages a year that are of utmost importance to the 
entire Usenet community.

Not content with hitting all of the newsgroup they have even 
progressed to mailing lists including those of the Electronic Frontier 
Foundation - a Washington based civil liberties group that is 
dedicated to free speech. It remains to be seen how the EFF will 
handle the intrusion into their network. The EFF mailing list is 
usually used to send foundation news to journalists and policy makers.

Minutes after the spam began users started reported cases and it soon 
became clear "there is a problem" in the words of one user. At the 
time or writing the Cancelmoose had not started deleting the messages 
but many users were calling for this.

(Martyn Williams/19950209)
