PRESS RELEASE

Contact:	Richard Houstoun		
	Scala Inc.
	(703) 713-0900
	richard.houstoun@scala.com

For Release:	February 22,  1995
								
Larese Appointed Scala s President and CEO

WASHINGTON, DC, February 22, 1995 - Edward J. Larese has been named
President and Chief Executive Officer of Scala, Inc., a leader in
computer-based television information systems.  Larese, who joined Scala
Inc. as Chief Operating Officer in November of last year, will continue
his responsibilities as Vice Chairman and Treasurer.  As President and
CEO, Larese assumes full responsibility and control for the Company's
worldwide operations, its strategic direction, and finances.  
	Larese replaces Jon Bohmer, Scala's founder, who assumes the role
of Vice President of New Business Development.  Bohmer continues as Vice
Chairman and a key architect in Scala's strategic planning in new product
concepts.  Bohmer endorsed the change in roles as another progressive step
for the Company.  "In only a short time, Ed has proven to be an excellent
leader who has earned the respect and loyalty of Scala senior management
and its employees.  By assuming full responsibility, Ed ensures that Scala
will boldly enter the competitive interactive television and PC multimedia
marketplaces with the marketing, sales and product support necessary to
succeed," said Bohmer. 
	Mr. Larese came to Scala from Star Technologies, Inc., a publicly
held designer and manufacturer of fully-integrated high technology
computer systems used by GE Medical Systems, where he had served as Chief
Financial Officer since 1992.  Previously, Larese held senior executive
officer positions with the multi-billion dollar public companies IU
International and Eastern Airlines, served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Altair Airlines, and held senior executive positions
in manufacturing and financial services companies such as Ross Industries,
Inc. and Finalco Group, Inc..  A graduate of Duke University, he is a CPA,
formerly associated with Price Waterhouse.
	Mr. Larese said, "I am pleased about the exciting prospects for
Scala's future, both in the U.S. and internationally.  I look forward to
further enhancing Scala's effort in designing and marketing world-class
digital television computer solutions to meet the rising needs for the
interactive television and information market places." 
	 Scala develops and markets computer-based television information
solutions.  Available in ten languages, Scala's multimedia tools are used
by more than 45,000 customers in more than 40 countries.   The Company is
headquartered in northern Virginia with international headquarters in
Oslo, Norway, and subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands,
Denmark and Sweden.  
 - - - END - - - 

____

John Chang, Technical Support Manager, Scala, Inc. USA
Reply to: john.chang@scala.com, Scala Computer Television
"Multimedia by SCALA.  Why Make It Harder?"
