AmiGadget Press
P.O. Box 1696   Lexington, SC 29071-1696   803-957-1106   Fax: 803-957-7495
email: amigadget@cup.portal.com




FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Press Contact: Jay Gross 803-957-1106






                        New Book Tells How To Start A Newspaper



	Are you tired of the (choose one) liberal / reactionary press
distorting the news? Why not do it yourself? AmiGadget Press wants to tell
you how. The Lexington, SC, company has published HOW TO START YOUR OWN
UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPER, a new book by Jay Gross.
	``With new technologies of the last few years, you no longer have to own
a xillion-dollar printing press and employ hundreds of people to create and
publish a newspaper,'' Gross commented. His book explores these new
technoligies, including telecommunications, computer driven printing and
prepress, desktop layout and typesetting, electronic and conventional
photography, halftoning, etc. The book also discusses the business side of
newspapering, as well as  advertising, circulation, and distribution.
	Author of two non-fiction titles by other publishers, Gross is a former
reporter and bureau chief for daily and weekly newspapers in the Carolinas,
and was editor of a weekly newspaper in South Carolina. He has been editor-
in-chief of several internationally circulated magazines and has done
publication design and consulting for start-up publishers nationwide. He is
a native of Aiken, SC, attended the University of South Carolina (``but I
didn't learn anything''), and lives in Lexington with his large fluffy cat
(no wives or children).
	Gross' new book covers the basics of starting and running a small
newspaper, including: how to design content, focus, and personality;
accumulating the technologies to do ``it all'' on the desktop - or kitchen
table - how to locate and negotiate with a reliable newspaper printing firm;
getting mailing permits from the Post Office, preparing advertising
materials, setting rates, and establishing policies; obtaining financing;
establishing, growing, and maintaining circulation, free or paid; writing the
copy and taking pictures; distribution and mailing; collecting the revenue
from advertisers; and using electronic communications and other technologies
to make the job manageable by very limited staff - or even by one person.
	 HOW TO START YOUR OWN UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPER includes extensive listings
of sources for newspaper-related supplies, software, and equipment, as well
as extensive discussion of electronically accessible resources for
journalists, including the Internet.
	``During recent decades, the world has changed a lot, and established
newspapers haven't changed much, except for raising prices,'' Gross said.
``Maybe it's time for a new `penny press,' the first motivator of the
masses.''
	Founded in 1989, AmiGadget Press, of Lexington, SC, publishes software,
magazines, books, and multimedia both conventionally and electronically. The
new book is in paper cover, plastic comb bound, 232 pages (8.5" x 11") with
index, glossary, and bibliography. The ISBN is 1-897211-09-2. It is available
through book stores or direct from the publisher.


                                 #  30  #

HOW TO START YOUR OWN UNDERGROUND NEWSPAPER, by Jay Gross. Lexington,
SC, 1995. AmiGadget Press. ISBN> 1-879211-09-2. 232 pages, plastic comb bound.
Indexed, with Glossary, Bibliography, and extensive resources listing. Cover
price: $24.95.
To ordirect, send check or money order for $24.95, no cod's no charge cards.
Postage paid in USA.

   This book is written on Amiga computers, formatter and output to final
camera-ready copy using Final Writer 3 software and Professional Page (for th
cover). The original text was written in Cygnus Ed Professional, then
moved to FW3 and formatted for output. Two spot colors were separated for
printing the cover using ProPage.
