Cross-posted to comp.sys.amiga.misc, comp.graphics.packages.lightwave,
the lightwave mailing list, the video toaster mailing list, and the
Amiga Zone on Portal. 

Today I attended a presentation by NewTek at Caeser's Palace in Las
Vegas in conjunction with NAB, the National Association of Broadcasters
yearly convention, expected to attract some 90,000 people.

I'll comment further on the NewTek presentation in another posting.  I
got their press kit and this is the most significant of the many press
releases it contained. 

I typed all of this in as a courtesy to the Computing/Amiga/Toaster
community, not to generate flames.  

What this press release does not tell you is the form factor for the
new Toaster box. It's a long skinny box about 6" x 6" by two feet long.
It comes with a padded carrying case.  It has rubber feet on its belly.

I am "on location" at a hotel in Vegas and am not equipped to digitize
and upload pictures of the box from the press kit, sorry.  Watch for
the next issue of Video Toaster User magazine which should have all the
visual poop on this beast.

Harv
harv@cup.portal.com

(any typing errors in the press release below are mine.  I am in no way
affiliated with NewTek, Inc.)

-------
NEWTEK, INC. ANNOUNCES PORTABLE VIDEO TOASTER FOR WINDOWS

April 9, 19915, NAB Las Vegas

NewTek Inc., today announced a portable standalone Video Toaster for
Windows NT and Windows 95.  NewTek is known for developing the Emmy
Award-winning Video Toaster, the product that launched the desktop
video industry.

"The original Video Toaster established itself as the standard for
desktop-based video production," said Tim Jenison, inventor of the
Toaster and President of NewTek.  "With the Video Toaster for Windows,
we're opening our doors to millions of Windows-based video producers." 
The new Video Toaster utilizes NewTek's proprietary video compression
technique, VTASC, for real-time recording, playback, and non-linear
editing.  The unit features a built-in time base corrector and utilizes
off the shelf computer hard drives for recording video.  In addition,
you can work with a total of 8 tracks of 16-bit CD-quality audio.  The
Video Toaster serves as both a Record Deck in the field and an A/B Roll
Edit System in the studio.

The original Toaster is known for its video effects, color processing,
character generation, paint, and 3D graphics.  It changed the face of
the video industry by being the first video device to incorporate all
of the major production tools in one box at an incredibly affordable
price.  With the standalone Toaster, NewTek has added non-linear-
editing, CD-quality audio and portability to the equation.  Now you can
record video, capture freeze frames, add titles, design graphics, edit
scenes, insert 3D animations, and put together a complete video program
using a single, sensible "drag and drop" interface.

Pricing for the standalone Video Toaster begins at $7995.00 and the
system is expected ship (sic) in the third quarter of 1995.  A
professional model, which includes a built-in control module with 5.6"
LCD monitor screen and front panel buttons, will also be available for
$9995.00.  Both models ship complete with the ability to run Video
Toaster software when connected to any computer running Windows NT or
Windows 95.  In the field, the professional model can be operated
entirely from its front panel LCD controls.  It can even perform basic
editing on the fly.

The control panel with the LCD monitor was added primarily for
electronic news gathering and electronic field production users, "But
everyone will love it," says Jenison.  "It's very sharp and clear.  You
can shoot and play back anywhere,e anytime, without the4 need to be
hooked up to a computer."  In the field, this will allow the cameraman
to control the Toaster via his camera cable.  During the ride home from
the shoot, the producer can review the footage on the LCD front panel
button (sic).  Back at the studio, the editor can control the entire
system via SCSI cable control from any Windows NT or Windows 95-based
PC.

Video Toaster for Windows includes the tremendously-popular graphics
package LightWave 3D, a full-featured 3D animation system renowned for
its easy to use interface and powerful features.  The new Toaster can
even function as the animation recorder for LightWave so that artists
can create flying logos, animated spots, scrolling credits and more,
direct to disk, with the ability to play them back immediately.

NewTek has given careful consideration to its existing user base.  The
heart of the new Video Toaster is the Flyer non-linear editing
hardware.  The Flyer's operating system has been completely re-written
to act as the brain of the new Toaster.  At the same time it remains
fully compatible with the current flyer hardware, which will allow
Video Toaster Flyer owners to convert their present Video Toaster
system into the new Video Toaster easily.  The new Toaster not only
works with Windows NT but also with present Amiga Toaster systems.

NewTek will make available a Video Toaster Bay (essentially the new
Video Toaster package minus the Flyer) to current owners so they may
enjoy the expanded capabilities of the portable system while retaining
all of the abilities of their current system.  The cost of the Video
Toaster Bay for current flyer users will be $2995.00. The professional
version will be $4995.00.

NewTek will be demonstrating Video Toaster for Windows and LightWave 3D
at the NAB Convention April 10-13 in the Las Vegas Convention Center,
Booth #15171, and in the Video Toaster User Pavilion in the Multimedia
hall.

For more information contact NewTek Inc., customer service at 1-800-
847-6111.

                              ###
