In my earlier press release posting I said I'd comment a bit further
on NewTek's presentation. So I shall.

It was held a number of times (once for developers, once for
press, once for the general NAB audience, maybe another time.. I
don't remember) over the course of an afternoon and early evening
in an opulent ballroom at Caeser's Palace, Las Vegas. 

I went to the 2:30pm meeting thinking it was the press meeting. It
turned out to be the developers' meeting. It was very low key, there
were numerous technical glitches with the huge barco projection
system, and the 500 seat room was barely half full. Jenison unveiled
a PeeCee to which the new Toaster/Flyer box was connected, and
described its guts.  Then he lifted a long skinny blueish nylon
carrying case from near his feet, ripped open a number of velcro
fasteners, and removed the new Toaster Box fromits carrying case,
held it up and showed it to the audience.
Some of the developers asked questions. At the side of the
room was a catered layout of soft drinks, and sliced fruit.

I returned for the 5:00pm general meeting. Also I had been told
that Alex Amor would be holding a dealer's meeting in one of
the nearby ballrooms, also at 5:00pm. Unfortunately it was not
well marked, wherever it was, and although I had gotten permissino
to attend the CEI meeting, I couldn't find it!! Sigh. (I later
learned it was mostly a "pep rally" for 80 dealers reps who attended).

At any rate, the 5:00pm NewTek general presentation morphed itself
into a 6:30pm start time. The hallways outside the room were jammed.
Finally we were let in. The ballroom had been expanded by removing
a portable wall, and now nearly 1000 seats filled the hall. The
stage setup was the same as it had been for the 2:30 and 3:00
pm presentations. Along one wall was a nice selection of food from
Caeser's catering dept. Unfortunately I couldn't get close to any
of it since half of the 1000 starved crazed Toaster heads who
rushed into the room when the doors opened ran directly for the
food and formed huge lines. I found a seat, draped my jacket over
it, and resigned myself to nursing a warm diet pepsi as I sat
down and waited for the show to start.

Eventually the lights dimmed and NewTek's PR person (a woman whose
name I immediately forgot) took the stage, and introduced
NewTek's "new CEO" who it turns out is a guy named Dwight (I can't
remember if that's his first or last name) who was Jenison's
lawyer and helped him write the paperwork some years back that
incorporated the company.  Jenison decided he was spending too
much time on corporate affairs and pencil pushing and not enough
time on hardware hacking, so his lawyer now runs the company under
his watch. Dwight, speaking in a southern drawl and in a typically
lawyerly fashion, said he didn't intend to change the way
the company works.. that it's low key and loose and he likes
it that way so it'll stay that way.

(I'm sure the NT employees were relieved to learn they wouldn't
have to get haircuts and start wearing suits to work).

Then TJ took the stage himself, and gave basically the same
spiel that he had given at the earlier presentations, except this
time we were treated to about 5 minutes worth of some of the
nicest LightWave demo reels I've seen in a long time - stuff from
Joe Conti, Amblin Imaging, and Foundation.  Truly incredible
LW animations.  One of the NewTek crew put the new Toaster/Flyer
box through its paces as Tim talked for a while. 

Then as he was about to wrap it up, Penn & Teller came storming
out of the audience, up to the stage, surrounded Tim, and Penn
grabbed the mic and literally shouted into it "WE'RE GOING TO
GO PLAY LASER TAG AND YOU'RE ALL COMING WITH US. WE HAVE BUSES
PARKED OUTSIDE. EVERYONE FOLLOW US THRU THE CASINO TO THE PARKING
LOT NOW! WE'RE GOING TO PLAY LASER TAG. GET AWAY FROM THAT FOOD
AND FOLLOW US. WE'RE GOING NOW!..." and continued this yelling
for a couple minutes. Much of the crowd filed out. I thought
to myself "the hell with that" and headed straight for the food...
what was left of it, chowing down on some little roast beef
and pastrami sandwiches, chocolate cake, etc. etc. 

I later found out from a couple friends who actually did get on
the bus to go play laser tag with P&T that two copies of LW 4.0
and a bunch of NewTek hats and t-shirts were given away there.

Now this bizarre ending to an otherwise fairly sedate presenation
just happened to coincide with the 7:00pm start time of
Play Inc.'s presentation of THEIR new "Trinity" product in
the ballroom next door to NewTek's. The general conclusion 
of those I talked to later was that this was obviously a way
to get much of the crowd away from Play's presentation. Far away,
in a hurry. Coincidence or Conspiracy? You be the judge.

Harv
