PRESS RELEASE

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE    September 8, 1995

PRESS CONTACT: Ellen Kazmaier

tel: 314-256-9595; fax: 314-256-9595


SOFT-LOGIK 10th ANNIVERSARY:

(St. Louis) Soft-Logik Publishing(tm) will celebrate its tenth
anniversary on September 11th. In an industry where companies appear
and disappear seemingly overnight, Soft-Logik products have become
fixtures on the shelves of Amiga and Atari computer owners.

Soft-Logik introduced Publishing Partner for Atari in 1986, and it
was hailed as the most powerful desktop publishing program of its
time. The industry's leading magazine called it a "knockout
program". Publishing Partner grew into PageStream and was released
for Amiga in 1989. It soon became the number one selling DTP program
for both Amiga and Atari computers.

In 1994, Soft-Logik released PageStream 3.0 for Amiga, a completely
new program which set a new standard for features and value. Version
3.1 is scheduled for release later this year and will be a free
update for owners of PageStream 3.0.

Today, Soft-Logik sells a wide range of Amiga software, including
PageStream and TypeSmith. Soft-Logik is the exclusive North American
publisher of Digita's Wordworth, Organizer and Datastore.

THE DECADE AHEAD:

New versions of PageStream for Macintosh and Windows are in
development. The Macintosh and PowerMacintosh versions will be
released later this year, and the Windows95 and WindowsNT version is
scheduled for the second quarter of next year. A new Amiga version
is also planned for next year.

Soft-Logik president Deron Kazmaier said "PageStream has become the
#1 Amiga and Atari DTP program by being the best program available.
The Macintosh and Windows markets have entrenched market leaders,
but our extensive experience as a pioneer in the DTP field will help
us succeed where recent Mac DTP newcomers have failed."


PAGESTREAM3 AMIGA: NEW PRICE

Soft-Logik Publishing is pleased to announce that it has lowered the
upgrade price for PageStream3. The standard upgrade price from
previous versions has been changed from $135 to $95. A new $60
option is being added for those on a budget.

The $60 version does not include a printed manual or Pantone(R)
color libraries, both of which are included with the standard $95
version. PageStream3 includes the most comprehensive AmigaGuide help
system of any Amiga program, so it's easy to use even without a
printed manual. Printed startup instructions are included.

This price change will help increase PageStream3's user-base so that
Soft-Logik can continue development of this important Amiga program.
A continuous stream of new users is essential, and the new upgrade
price will allow more people than before to use the latest version.

Owners of PageStream 1.0 to 2.2 Amiga, excluding the new SE version,
are eligible for the new upgrade price.

Purchasers of PageStream 3.0 will receive a free upgrade to 3.1 when
it is released later this year.


PAGESTREAM 2.2 RETURNS:

To celebrate its 10th anniversary, Soft-Logik is re-releasing
PageStream 2.2, the best-selling desktop publishing program for
Amiga and Atari computers. Bundled with a new 90 page manual,
PageStream 2.2 SE will probably top the sales charts again at its
incredible new price. PageStream 2.2, which originally had a
suggested retail price of $299.95 will now sell for just $39. The
new lower price will help bring desktop publishing to people who
couldn't previously afford a professional quality DTP program.

Readers of Britain's "CU Amiga" magazine will receive a free copy of
PageStream 2.2 with their October issue cover disk. They can
purchase the full program disk set with all of its fonts and the
manual for 24.95 pounds Sterling.

PageStream 2.2 SE is the perfect choice for owners of older
Amiga and Atari computers. Its minimum system requirements are
1.5MB of RAM, 1 floppy drive (2 for Atari), and AmigaDOS 1.3 or
any version of TOS.

Purchasers of PageStream 2.2 SE Amiga who wish to upgrade in the
future can apply the entire purchase price towards the purchase of
PageStream3.

PageStream 2.2 SE for Amiga and Atari will be available in late
October. Orders are being accepted now.


WORDWORTH: MORE AFFORDABLE THAN EVER

Digita is working on an exciting new version of Wordworth that will
include style tags, ARexx, true footnotes, improved tables, faster
editing and more.

There's no reason to wait for the next version because Soft-Logik
has lowered the North American price of the current version. The
Soft-Logik direct price for owners of other Soft-Logik programs has
been lowered from $120 to $99. The new price at which anybody can
order direct, and the suggested street price, has been lowered from
$135 to $110. This is a limited time price!


WORDWORTH 3.1 SE: NEW PRODUCT

Not everybody needs all the features of Wordworth 3.1, that's why
Digita created Wordworth SE. Amiga Format gave it their Gold Award
and said it has "all the best bits of 3.1 at a bargain price." The
SE version has been optimized to run on a 2MB Amiga with AmigaDOS
2.04 or better, with or without a hard drive.

Wordworth 3.1 SE will be available in North America in October at
the incredibly low price of just $49. This rock-bottom price will
help everybody afford this popular word processor. Owners of 3.1 SE
can upgrade to the full version of 3.1 for just $59. Orders for SE
are being accepted now.


THE SE BUNDLE!

Now Amiga owners can get the best desktop publisher and the best
word processor for the price of a new game! For just $69, Amiga
owners can get PageStream 2.2 SE and Wordworth 3.1 SE together. This
is the best Amiga software value today, and is sure to be a popular
combination in the months ahead. Orders for the SE bundle are being
accepted now.


ORGANIZER: NEW PRICE

Soft-Logik has also decreased the North American price of Organizer.
Organizer has been one of Soft-Logik's top-selling programs since
its introduction in the spring of this year. Owners of other
Soft-Logik applications can order it directly from Soft-Logik for
just $75, while other customers can order it for $85.


EVANGELIZE!

Wordworth owners can save money by getting friends to purchase
Wordworth 3.1. If your friends mention you when ordering, they will
pay our best price which we normally reserve for owners of
Soft-Logik programs. In return, we'll give you $20 off your next
Soft-Logik application purchase.

PageStream3 owners can save money by getting friends to upgrade to
PageStream3, or to purchase PageStream3. If your friends mention you
when ordering, they will pay our best price which we normally
reserve for owners of Soft-Logik programs. In return, we'll give you
$25 off your next Soft-Logik application purchase.

--- END ---

PS: Watch for another exciting announcement later this month!
