News release

For immediate release 

Amiga Technologies GmbH makes its first formal U.S.
appearance at the Video Toaster User Expo '95 

October 3, 1995, Sunnyvale, CA 

Video Toaster User is pleased to announce that Amiga
Technologies GmbH, the ESCOM subsidiary currently developing
and manufacturing the Amiga computer, will make its first
appearance in the U.S. as an exhibitor at the Video Toaster
User Expo '95. 

Earlier this year, Amiga Technologies bought the assets of
Commodore including the technology to develop and manufacture
Amiga computers. Now they are coming to the video industry's
only show dedicated to the Video Toaster, LightWave 3D and
the Flyer to unveil their plans for manufacturing,
third-party product development and distribution in the U.S. 

"During a recent visit to Germany the principles of Escom and
Amiga Technologies shared with us the plans they have
established for the Amiga in the U.S.," said Dwight Parscale,
NewTek CEO. "We are very enthusiastic about the future for
the Amiga and believe their participation in the Video
Toaster User Expo is a strong sign of their commitment to
this market. We are excited about the potential to make these
creative tools available again." 

"We anticipate an even greater turn-out for the second annual
Video Toaster User Expo due to this recent addition of Amiga
Technologies as an exhibitor. This is what our readers have
been waiting for," said Video Toaster User's Events Manager,
Ann Pulley. 

This year's Expo will bring thousands of video enthusiasts
from around the world to the Universal City Hilton & Towers
November 1-4, 1995. Four days of training seminars (Nov. 1-4)
concentrating on the Video Toaster, LightWave 3D and the
Flyer will be presented in conjunction with three days of
exhibits (Nov. 2-4) by the industry's leading manufacturers
and developers of third-party products for the Video Toaster
and LightWave 3D market. 

Avid Media Group is the leading authority of information for
professionals in the personal video production and 3D
animation markets, with a focus on the Video Toaster and
LightWave 3D. Avid Media Group's expansive product line
includes magazines, newsletters, custom publishing, trade
shows, and seminars. 

For more information contact Ann Pulley at 408-743-9250. 
