
From: darren@uoguelph.ca (Darren Eveland)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Wall St. Journal Article (LONG)
Date: 20 Mar 1996 02:49:24 GMT
Organization: University of Guelph
Lines: 111
Message-ID: <4inrnk$reh@ccshst05.cs.uoguelph.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: tdg.res.uoguelph.ca
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Sorry if this is duplicated...

Thanks go out to mavericke on IRC #amiga for this.

Later!

HammerD
--------


                     WALL STREET JOURNAL
                    TECHNOLOGY SELECTIONS
   
                             18 Mar 96
-----------------------------------------------------
Full-text articles:

4.  Escom AG Tries To Resuscitate Its Amiga PC --- Remembrance of Glory   
    Lends Certain Mystique To Model With a Past                           
    By Silvia Ascarelli, Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal        
                                                                          
   HANOVER, Germany -- Can a computer be jinxed? Ask the three successive
owners of the Amiga home computer.
   First, the quirky little machine burned through the $7 million put up
by its initial backers, three Florida dentists, before the first model
hit the stores in the mid-1980s. After it became a cult brand in the
U.S. and Europe, Amiga's second owner, Commodore International Ltd.,
went bankrupt in 1994.
   The brand's new owner, German personal computer-maker Escom AG, is
experiencing the unlucky tradition. Only months after it bought the
Amiga and Commodore names and patents for $10 million, Escom slid deep
into the red, largely because of slowing conventional-PC sales.
   But Escom is betting that Amiga's luck has finally changed. Amiga
fans -- an unusually loyal band of diehards from Berlin to Boston --
contend that the current wave of multimedia computing and Internet
surfing plays to Amiga's strength: a fast, efficient circuitry and
software that are good at showing pictures and playing video.
   "Technologically, it's a great computer," says Asha DeVelder, 48
years old, a Northern California graphic artist who walked out of a
store in 1986 with an Amiga instead of the typewriter she was shopping
for. "The bottom line is the technology is still there; it's still
graceful, it still works. There's no reason to leave."
   Industry experts give it impossible odds of ever being a big force in
the market; after all, IBM-compatible PCs hold nearly 90% of the PC
market, and the Amiga last Christmas represented less than 1% of
industry sales in Europe. Even Manfred Schmitt, chairman of Escom's
management board, describes it as a niche entry. But despite its
financial woes, Escom is starting to roll out new Amiga models. "We
definitely don't want to see Amiga fail," Mr. Schmitt says.
   Here at Cebit, Europe's biggest computer trade show, Escom is
displaying perhaps its most promising product, Amiga Surfer -- a
microcomputer that plugs into a standard television and comes with a
modem and special software for "surfing" the global Internet. Priced at
1,199 marks ($815), the machine also handles conventional computing
tasks such as word processing, games and graphics. Aside from the modem
and accompanying communications software, it is similar to an earlier
model, Amiga Magic, now sold for 998 marks.
   Also at Cebit, Escom is unveiling a prototype of a new Amiga model
that should be in stores in September and will include a Pentium-speed
processor and CD-ROM drive. Depending on cost, a modem may be added.
Amiga Technologies President Petro Tyschtschenko says he wants to price
the model below 1,000 marks, or less than half the price of a similarly
equipped PC. But company officials maintain their biggest splash will be
a PowerAmiga, using Motorola Inc.'s PowerPC chip, expected to be
introduced at next year's Cebit trade show and to reach stores in May
1997.
   When it was first launched a decade ago, the Amiga, with its fat
keyboard and no stand-alone hard drive, was considered ahead of its
time. Back when PCs could only beep and screens were monochrome, Amiga
was dazzling users with sound and video cards, sharp color screens and
plug-and-play technology.
   If a PC were likened to a sober numbercruncher, then the Amiga,
originally conceived as a game-playing machine, was the vibrant
animation designer. And it was cheap. After a few million models were
sold during the late 1980s and early 1990s, the computer became a cult
item. Fan magazines proliferated in almost every language. User groups
kept meeting, even when most had relegated the computer to the scrap
heap.
   Recently, 70,000 fans swarmed into Cologne for a three-day Amiga
trade show, clamoring for autographs and entrance tickets. Grateful
letters still arrive daily at Amiga Technologies GmbH headquarters,
thanking company officials for bringing the computer back from the dead.
   Steve Pond, a computer network designer in a London suburb, boasts
that he can simultaneously format two disks, print from his screen and
go online on his nine-year-old Amiga 2000. "If you spend any amount of
time working on an Amiga, when you switch to a PC or a Macintosh,
everything feels so slow." He says he wants to hold out for a PowerAmiga
but admits that "at the moment, I'm teetering. I do need a new
computer."
   Persuading the rest of the computing world to switch systems won't be
easy. Escom's financial woes are likely to spill over to the Amiga
division, which lost about five million marks last year. Even Mr.
Schmitt admits that he can't be as free-spending as he might like. The
Escom group must be more conservative in developing new products; in
fact, it's hoping Motorola will pick up some of the tab for developing
the PowerAmiga.
   "We must avoid at all costs making any risky maneuvers," says Mr.
Schmitt, Escom's chairman.
   One glaring weakness is the absence of Amiga software in computer
stores. At one of Escom's Frankfurt stores, colorful Amiga boxes are
stacked by the cash register, and one is set up for demonstrations. But
prospective buyers won't find boxes of software to go along with it.
   "I can get what I need for it," says Ms. DeVelder, the graphic
artist. She relies on mail-order firms for most programs and says her
software collection already fills two 75-disk wooden boxes, a 50- and
100-disk box and several 30-disk boxes, in addition to "various piles of
disks scattered about" her office.
   "I consider myself extremely blessed that I stumbled across Amiga
when I did," she adds. "I'm just wondering whether Amiga Technologies
can really [bring back the brand.]"
