A CALL TO ARMS FOR ALL TEAM AMIGA MEMBERS:

In this time of shuffling, it is very important that VisCorp have a
clear understanding of the support and unity of the Amiga Computer
user base.

I have seen the hard work put in by many of the managers at Amiga
Technologies. I have seen some of our staunchest vendors hanging tough
with us because they care and they believe. I have seen and heard from
many of the user base who really want to see a resurgance of the
Amiga, it's vendors, and it's market position. I have had email after
email from programmers asking for info on developer support for the
Amiga.

Before the pundants and gloomers crank up their Macs and clones, it is
important that we take a moment to really 'think' about what is
happening. VisCorp was in this almost from the beginning with
Escom/Amiga Technologies. They see the value of the Amiga custom
chipset and it's slim OS for the set top box market. They are willing
to pay $40 million (US) for the tech and all that comes with it. They
are very interested in having an Internet box in the low end market
and they have said that they will continue supporting the big box
market as well.

I could be totally wrong in my analysis. That will be for history to
judge. But, my take on the sale of Amiga Technologies to VisCorp is
that this is a good move that will give some needed working capital to
the platform we all love.

Change is not always bad. Many times change is needed to advance the
ideas that we hold dear. I really think that this change may be the
very spark needed to get the Amiga it's North American presence in a
way that will benefit all of us as well as helping to increase the
user base in the European markets.

Many have followed my lead and have listened to my predictions here. I
will make one more 'Mystic Meg' for all concerned ... stay the course,
do not bend in your avid support, show VisCorp that we are united
behind them the same way we have been with Amiga Technologies, and
they will make us proud!


Gary Peake                "Mystic Meg"             Fellow AMIGA Users:
-------------------------------------------------
Gemini2@cup.portal.com   Portal Communications   | TEAM AMIGA is a grassroots
1:106/7512.1             Club Amiga-Houston,Tx   | movement designed to provide
                                                 | support to all AMIGA users,
    Proud supporter of Amiga Technologies        | to AMIGA TECHNOLOGIES, and
     Asst Co-ordinator ---> *TEAM AMIGA*         | to all AMIGA vendors.
-------------------------------------------------
43 year old Beta-Tester AND Central American Exporter!

... When it starts to rain, everything's the same - The Beatles

-*- ASTG 1.9
