Subject: VIScorp press release
Date: 27 Apr 1996 12:59:27 -0400
Organization: Central Virginia's Free-Net
Lines: 349
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <4ltjpf$jug@freenet.vcu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: freenet.vcu.edu
Xref: netcom.com comp.sys.amiga.advocacy:160733 comp.sys.amiga.misc:124435 comp
.sys.amiga.hardware:130206 comp.sys.amiga.applications:51704

Here's more VIScorp info. I found this on the VIScorp website
(http://www.vistv.com) on 26 April 96. I've combined five
separate news releases into this one text. 

In stripping out the html codes and the mid-paragraph hard
returns that web browsers ignore, I may have inadvertantly
introduced some minor formatting errors and extraneous spaces;
but the large paragraphs, certain misspellings (such as
"Detriot"), and missing and superfluous apostrophes are as in
the original documents. 

(Incidently, the writing style reminds me of that found in
several documents on the VIScorp website--although I haven't
done a serious analysis, and the resemblance may just be
because many persons who have mastered the complexities of
artificial programming languages still haven't figured out
certain rules of their native natural language, such as those
distinguishing between "its" and "it's", and among "Roger's"
and "Rogers'" and "Rogers.") 

--Don





Small Wonders Research Reports 

Visual Information Service Corp (VisCorp), traded on the NASDAQ
Bulletin Board (VICP), has created proprietary technology for
the first commercial "set top box" connecting the TV and the
telephone. This inexpensive device will allow non-PC users to
access the Internet, on-line services, E-mail, Fax, Voice-mail,
and direct credit-card transactions, as well as all telephone
functions, with a TV and remote controller. With prototyping
completed, the company has formed key strategic alliances for
technology, manufacturing, and distribution, that will assure a
very rapid rollout of the product, both in the US and
throughout Europe. Current field testing with Booth
Communications in the Detriot area suggests VisCorp may very
well win the race to (a very big) market with this hot new
product.

Visit the Company Web Site (be sure to follow the links to
Amiga and Escom): http://www.vistv.com

Research Reports:

March 2, 1996

March 11, 1996 (Trip Report)

March 25, 1996

April 7, 1996






SMALL WONDERS RESEARCH REPORT 

Mike Harrison, Analyst - March 2, 1996 

Fax: 860-688-0226 Voice: 860-688-6297 Email: harrison@tiac.net

Visual Information Service Corp (NASDAQ BB: VICP) Call Allen
Jones, 3 03-470-8783 

Big players, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, and Intel, among
others, have announced plans recently to develop "set top box"
computers - stripped-down, inexpensive versions intended to
bring the entertainment, information, and on-line shopping
convenience of the Internet to the masses. As more analysis is
devoted to the Internet phenomenon and it's future, it's
becoming accepted gospel that today's net, however impressive,
is but a tiny precursor of the super highway that will be
constructed around the year 2000. With the Supernet's
geometrically increased bandwidth (information carrying
capacity) and competitively low access prices, usage will soar,
and commercial success w ill be assured. What completes the
equation is a low-cost, convenient consumer appliance for
access. Viscorp is a small company with a very real opportunity
to beat the big players to market with it's ED TV device. It's
secret weapon in this time-is-of-the-essence battle is that it
owns (via agreement with ESCOM AG the giant German PC producer)
the old Commodore computer technology. Back in the 80's,
Commodore sold a 64K memory box with a floppy drive that used a
TV set for its monitor. The low budget item was popular with
students and hobbyists, especially in Europe. Updated with a
newer chip set for better graphics , an expanded, standardized
operating system, and a modem for telephone communications, the
Commodore is a set top box. (All the same functionality will be
put on a custom board, to be integrated with the next
generation TV set, currently under development). The companies
planned commercial debut in the fall of 96 could give them as
much as a 6 month lead. Current field testing in Detroit with
Booth Communications (a cable operator) is on schedule and
proving successful. European and Asian strategic marketing
alliances mean ED's rollout w ill be international right from
the start. Management appears to have the ability to bring the
plan to fruition. Five of the six senior managers of
technology, operations and marketing are former Commodore
executives. William Buck, CEO, is the former President of
Cableshare (US) Ltd and Vice President of ICTV, both pioneering
interactive television developers. Since it's reorganization a
s a public company in December 1995, VICP has traded between $5
and $9, with a current price around $7. The 21 million shares
outstanding are mostly insider - held, with a float of about 1
million shares. If in fact the product rolls o ut in the fall
of 96, producing any substantial revenues in the calendar year,
the stock should easily trade up to the $20 level, with the
potential for a Netscape like surprise if the story catches
investors fancies. In the near term , the shares should trade
methodically higher to the $10 level as the story gets out and
the company begins to release more information about it's
ongoing achievements. Because this company has yet to be
discovered (a situation that will change very soon) and because
of the low float, use only limit orders to buy between the bid
and ask. Patiently accumulate only up to $8 at this time. 

* Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable but is
not guaranteed as to completeness or accuracy, and should not
be construed as an offer to buy or sell any securities.
Complete information should always be obtained directly from
the company. Small Wonders personnel may have a position in
this company. If you find this report useful and wish to
receive our next report or update, by Fax or Email, send a
check for $25 to Small Wonders, 45 Woodland St, Windsor, CT
06095






SMALL WONDERS RESEARCH REPORT 

Mike Harrison, Analyst - March 11, 1996 Fax: 860-688-0226
Voice: 860-688-6297 Email: harrison@tiac.net

Visual Information Service Corp (NASDAQ BB: VICP) Call Allen
Jones 303-470-8783

In our first report on this company (March 2) we characterized
Viscorp as a small company with a very real opportunity to beat
the big players to market with a network computer. My recent
trip to cable provider Booth Communications in Detriot and to
Viscorp in Chicago left me convinced that the company is indeed
positioned to seize that opportunity. Booth is currently
conducting a field test of the ED device configured for cable.
In this setup, t he ED box replaces/integrates with the
converter box to provide added value for the cable viewer (in
addition to internet, on-line, fax and phone functions). While
a review of those convenience features will be forthcoming,
suffice it to say at this time that some trial viewers have
vowed not to surrender their ED box at the end of the test.
Focus group meetings scheduled for next week should confirm
which features customers value most, allowing programmers to
refine this configuration. Booth GM Hugh Jencks is very excited
about the ability of ED to add value for his customers and
revenues for his company. At Viscorp headquarters the focus is
on the companies technical advantages, beginning with the Amiga
operating system. An object oriented language with graphical
user interface, it has historically been used very successfully
to integrate text and graphics on game machines. It has the
flexibility to provide an all purpose base from which to
control both analog and digital signals for audio, video, text,
data and graphics. Relatively compact in size, and efficient in
utilization, it is therefore cost efficient for this
application, while maintaining an open architecture for
compatibility with evolving standards. Management believes that
it has all of the technical pieces in place, and has been busy
securing the manufacturing and distribution agreements
necessary to come to market. The focus now is primarily in
Europe, where the company is leveraging historical
relationships (from the Commodore days) and forging new ones
rapidly. The plan is to prove the business model there, and
then quickly capitalize on that success to create marketing
relationships in the States. William Buck, CEO, is looking to
finalize relationships in the immediate future that will bring
solid credibility to this small company with big ambition. In
summary, Viscorp has the appropriate technology, and appears
very near to closing the requisite deals to launch itself into
the highly visible arena of network, or "set-top -box",
computing. Recommended at $7, VICP is now trading around $7.50
and should trade methodically higher to the $10 level as the
story gets out. Because t his company has yet to be discovered
(a situation that will change very soon) and because of the low
float (less than 1 million), use only limit orders to buy
between the bid and ask. Accumulate up to $9 at this time. 

* Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable but is
not guaranteed as to completeness or accuracy, and should not
be construed as an offer to buy or sell any securities.
Complete information should always be obtained directly from
the company. Small Wonders personnel may have a position in
this company. If you find this report useful and wish to
receive our next report or update, by Fax or Email, send a
check for $25 to Small Wonders, 45 Woodland St, Windsor, CT
06095






SMALL WONDERS RESEARCH REPORT 

Mike Harrison, Analyst - March 25, 1996 Fax: 860-688-0226
Voice: 860-688-6297 Email: harrison@tiac.net

Visual Information Service Corp (NASDAQ BB: VICP) Call Allen
Jones, 303-470-8783 

This is our third report on VICP, and the story is getting
better all the time. In our first report, we mentioned that big
players (IBM, Sun Microsystems, Intel) were involved in the
Internet box or set-top box arena.

In this report we want to reveal some of the big players that
Viscorp is rubbing elbows with. First, CEO William Buck is
scheduled to be one of six keynote speakers at a global forum
in London on April 18 and 19, on Networked Interactive Gaming
(subtitled "To Drive the Take-up of Interactive Television"
Translation: Interactive TV needs a killer application to get
it off the ground, a nd gaming is better positioned to do that
now than other potential killer aps, ie video-on-demand. Trials
and surveys worldwide confirm that consumer interest in various
game areas is very strong.) Sharing the podium with Bill Buck
will be Nick Fiore, VP, SEGA Channel; Dan Downs, Pres/COO, NTN
Communications; John Lack, CEO, TCI/Acclaim; Scott Jacobs, CEO
Gameway; and Jay Kreiling, Market Dev, TCI Communications.
Major contributors include British Telecom, France Telecom,
Sony Interactive, Philips Media, General Instrument, Videotron
and DataQuest. Topics run the gamut from the technical
performance of interactive multi-player video games to consumer
interest in gameshows to the legal hurdles of international
gambling laws. (Translation: No lightweights at this one.) Bill
Buck's expertise, and topic of discussion, explains how set-top
boxes are developing to take the place of the games console.
Turning to the possibilities in the area of Internet commerce,
management is presently in France working with a major European
consumer credit provider as well as a major software encryption
provider. The idea is to make secure Internet shopping a
click-and-pay reality, with a portion of the total transaction
amount going to the set-top box provider. (Translation: Viscorp
is not just selling hardware, but is partnering in the creation
of a new marketing medium, and will receive significant
on-going revenues from that partnership.) Lastly, we had been
hearing that some big European funds might be ready to take a
position in the stock, and judging by today's volume of 300,000
shares, they have begun their accumulation. Look for higher
average volume in the days ahead, with the price moving up to
the $10 range. Joint venture and product announcements in the
coming months should move the price up to the $20 level
sometime this year, with the potential for a Netscape like
surprise if the story catches investors fancies. Recommended
3/2/96 at $7, currently asking $8.25, accumulate up to $10 at
this time. 

 * Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable but is
not guarantee d as to completeness or accuracy, and should not
be construed as an offer to buy or sell any securities.
Complete information should always be obtained directly from
the company. Small Wonders personnel may have a position in
this company. Subscription is on a pay-as-you-go basis. To
guarantee timely receipt of our next report, by Fax or Email,
pay for this report by check for $25 to Small Wonders, 45
Woodland St, Windsor, CT 06095






SMALL WONDERS RESEARCH REPORT 

Mike Harrison, Analyst - April 7, 1996 Fax: 860-688-0226 Voice:
860-688-6297 Email: harrison@tiac.net

Visual Information Service Corp (NASDAQ BB: VICP) Call Allen
Jones 303-470-8783

New 3/2/96 at $7 - Current $8.56 - Buy to $10 - 1996 target $16
- $20 Recap: Viscorp's products (often referred to as "TV
set-top-box" or " $500 network PC") will transform the TV set
into a fully functional telecommunication device with on-screen
speaker telephone, address book, two-way FAX, Internet and
online access, Cable TV interface, and other enhanced services.
Key assets include (1) alliances with big players (Escom AG the
giant German PC producer, and Thomson SA, the major French
consumer electronics company) (2) battle-hardened, Commodore
experienced technical/marketing management (3) broadcast savvy
upper management (4) a business model that includes ongoing
network revenue sharing as well as product sales (5) product
rollout in 1996. The race is on, and competition is the
concern. First, note that the market here is huge - there are
an estimated 100 million homes in the US alone with TV's and
telephones that could be coupled, with easily 20 times that
many in the remaining target nations. Conclusion: the market is
too large for any one or two companies to dominate, especially
in the early rounds. Second, players have different goals -
Oracle, recently touting a prototype, obviously has more
expertise in, and more to gain from, increased server database
software sales in a net worked world than a new "hardware"
division mass producing PC's. Similarly, IBM and Sun have more
to gain from the host/server side of the equation, although
Sun, along with DEC, will make fast, inexpensive chips
available to vendors, including Apple. Conclusion: many niches
and revenue streams are available for claim staking. Viscorp's
real competition is likely to be smaller makers of converter
boxes (such as General Instrument and Scientific-Atlanta) whom
we expect them to stand up well against, especially in Europe.
Lastly, product roll out will count. Viscorp's extensive
history with the Commodore box and its CD- ROM game player
ensure that the first product will debut commercially in 1996.
Coming Attractions: In addition to the international Networked
Interactive Ga ming conference that Viscorp will be presenting
at in London, they will be at the National Association of
Broadcasters show in Las Vegas April 13-17 with prototypes. I
plan on attending and expect significant media and investor
relations coverage to result from the show. (Note: our latest
recommendation, Instant Video - IVDO, $3.43 - will be
demonstrating the worlds first TransAtlantic
faster-than-real-time digital video transmission at NAB) Look
for higher average volume, with the price moving up to the $10
range as NAB, NIG, and joint venture announcements hit in the
coming weeks. Product rollout should move the pr ice up to the
$16 - $20 level sometime this year, with the potential for a
Net scape like surprise if the story catches investors fancies.
Recommended 3/2/96 at $7, currently asking $8.56, accumulate up
to $10 at this time. 

* Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable but is
not guaranteed as to completeness or accuracy, and should not
be construed as an offer to buy or sell any securities.
Complete information should always be obtained directly from
the company. Small Wonders personnel may have a position in
this company. Subscription is on a pay- as-you-go basis. To
guarantee timely receipt of our next report, by Fax or Email,
pay for this report by check for $25 to Small Wonders, 45
Woodland St, Windsor, CT 06095

-- 
          %%%%%%%%%%% less is more %%%%%%%%%%
         %%%%% Don Maxwell, Richmond, VA %%%%%
          %%%%%%%%% beauty is truth %%%%%%%%%
