(As you read this, try to keep in mind that SMG (Service Management
Group), is the company who stated on Usenet in comp.sys.amiga.misc
that they "saw no market in North America for the Amiga 1200" and
that they "couldn't sell them if they were free."  - Harv)
---

Path: portal.com!svc.portal.com!sdd.hp.com!hplabs!hplntx!news.dtc.hp.com!co
 l.hp.com!usenet.eel.ufl.edu!usenet.cis.ufl.edu!caen!newsxfer2.itd.umich.edu
 !newsfeed.internetmci.com!howland.reston.ans.net!psinntp!psinntp!psinntp!in
 terramp.com!usenet
From: SMG/InTouch Systems <ir001167@interramp.com>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: SMG Exits the Amiga Market
Date: Fri, 26 Apr 1996 16:52:59 -0400
Organization: PSI Public Usenet Link
Lines: 331
Message-ID: <318137AB.1F1F@interramp.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ip123.baltimore.md.interramp.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
X-Mailer: Mozilla 2.0 (WinNT; I)
Portal-Origin: Usenet
Portal-Type: text
Portal-Bytes: 8949
Portal-Location: 17311.3.32419.1

SMG Exits the Amiga Market

Date:	Friday, April 26, 1996
To:	All Amiga Dealers, Suppliers and Consumers
From:	the Service Management Group, inc.

Subject:	SMG Exits the Amiga Market

The Service Management Group is ceasing all sales, administrative and suppo=
rt activities for Amiga Technologies products in North America. This action
is effective immediately. The SMG regrets taking these actions, but the
worsening situation with Amiga Technologies, an unscrupulous distribution
system, and the wholesale de-emphasis of support, leaves us no choice.
Despite the SMG=92s best efforts to provide fairly priced and well supported
Amiga systems, Amiga Technologies and the North American Amiga market has
deteriorated irretrievably. Conscience mandates that we nolonger
participate.

The SMG will continue to support dealers who purchased systems from the SMG
throughout the warranty period. This support is contingent on our ability to
obtain replacement parts from Amiga Technologies. Although Amiga
Technologies is contractually obligated to support these systems, they have
shown little regard for their commitments.

The Service Management Group has directly provided or administered all Amig=
a support for Commodore Business Machines and Amiga Technologies since 1990.
More than 14,000 Amiga owners have relied on SMG support programs. The SMG
designed and managed Gold Service Program was recognized by Fortune in 1991.
The Extended Warranty Program and Third Party Product coverage gave Amiga
owners world class support. Commodore executives routinely enjoyed the
accolades of the trade press and customer praise for these service programs.

The SMG did not seek the Amiga Technologies business. After six arduous
years of working intimately with Commodore and a very painful and costly CBM
bankruptcy, the SMG had had enough. Despite the past trials, we believed in
the Amiga, the many good dealers and consumers. We were flattered when Amiga
Technologies described us as "the only honest player" in the market. We were
seduced when they said that, without our support, the Amiga could not
return.

After six years of supporting the Amiga, we bid you farewell. Being of char=
acter and conscience we refuse to participate in a business that holds its
dealers and consumers in such low regard. When management philosophy
espouses the tenets of P.T. Barnum, it is time to leave. We depart with some
words from John C. Dvorak, in the May 14, 1996 issue of PC Magazine:  "The
whole lame situation reminds me of what happened to the Amiga. " [they] were
mostly jerks."

***********************************

In the beginning our hopes for a reborn Amiga soared, but the dream of the =
Phoenix was lost almost immediately. Amiga Technologies was bewildered by
even the most basic business decision. Despite futile attempts to help,
error begat error at an alarming rate. Soon overwhelmed, the goal was no
longer to help the Amiga rise from the ashes, but to cloak management with
the illusion of competency. Personal survival became the only objective.
Faced with a worsening financial situation, Amiga Technologies was
emasculated by years end. The Phoenix fell to the ground, unable to rise.

As the new year began, we found ourselves awash in a sea of by unethical
practices, betrayal, duplicity and uncountable lies. Mortally wounded by an
inability to pay its debts, Amiga Technologies lost total control. Sensing
its imminent demise, dark forces gathered to seize the opportunity and
hasten the end. Confused, lost and senseless, the Phoenix wandered
aimlessly, stumbling often. Its sense of purpose long gone, it now sought
only the light of one more dawn. We obtained the counsel of every manner of
wizard and warrior, priest and prophet. The Phoenix could still live, if
only it raised its head to the heavens and picked a star to guide it. The
Phoenix heard the words, but could not understand. It grew weaker by the
day.

On March 2nd, the nearly lifeless Phoenix was carried to New York. It spoke
eloquently of its coming victorious ascent to the heavens. Amid the fire and
flame, it spread its wings. We pleaded with it to raise its head and see
beyond the dawn. It was too late, it could not. The Phoenix plunged headlong
into the sea, and died. We held its now lifeless body and wept. The dream
gone. It was finished. The dark forces leaped with joy. Their moment had
come. At that very instant, Gollum slithered from the stench and ooze, and
stole the last ring. Now invincible, their plan was complete. Cloaked in 
invisibility, Gollum held the lifeless form of the Phoenix on the throne and
summoned the faithful. It spoke of the glories yet to be, demanding tribute
and obedience. The faithful bowed low and paid homage.

How can this be, we asked? Can they not see the dream is gone? The Phoenix 
is dead. No, came the reply. They are blinded by their desire. The Phoenix
gave their lives meaning and purpose. In their minds the Phoenix will always
live.

As we walked away, we knew it was a sad day indeed.

*****************************

"And one day I looked around and all of the other dealers were gone. Gone
out of business, or gone insane.  It was time to leave."
           						. . .  an ex-Amiga Dealer

Hey guys. Its time to leave. For the past six years, first with Commodore,
most recently with Amiga Technologies, we have tried to do the right thing.
Amid the noise and confusion, we have attempted to operate with honesty and
professionalism. We attempted to create a business environment where people
who cared about Commodore and Amiga products could be treated fairly and
honestly.

Guess what? That's not what you guys want. With a minimal number of
exceptions (you know who you are) the Amiga universe is a finely tuned blend
of dysfunction and psychosis. Manufacturers, distributors, dealers, and
users; the only saving grace is that the players are apparently equally
delusional.

It would be easy, at this point, to write many pages detailing all of the e=
rrors and omissions that have plagued these products for the past five
years. I doubt that would accomplish much. You buy old technology at
extraordinarily high prices. You have no development plans, no growth path,
and no guarantee of availability on the current production models. The
product is fraught with limitations, quality and engineering problems. The
key selling advantage of the price performance edge that exited four years
ago is gone....forever.

We promised to do our best to support this market. We have done that, and m=
ore. Alone, we fought to establish a businesslike atmosphere, to provide
stability, to lower prices.

We were wrong.

Clearly, we misjudged the intent and temperament of the other players in the
Amiga market. They do not want honesty and clarity. They want to shut the
doors, fire up the cigars, and dance the dance of the quick and dirty deal.
They do not want to honor and support their customers. They want to grab
people's wallets and scurry back down the alley. Their vision of the future
comes not from a mountain top, but from under a rock.

Harsh, you say? Perhaps. Chalk it up to cumulative frustration.

We also promised one other thing. We would support the products and the
customers with honesty. We have clenched our teeth and stood mute as we did
our best to help rebuild this product. We have gone beyond the bounds of
loyalty attempting to support Amiga Technologies.


Our mistake.

They spoke of partnership when they meant indentured servitude. They spoke =
of sharing responsibility when they meant assuming total risk. They spoke of
long term investment when they meant immediate profit. They lifted their
eyes and voices to heaven while they reached down and pulled the devil up to
the table.

So here we are. Bruised and abused. Sadder, but wiser. Gone, and soon
forgotten.

About that honesty. We haven't got time to recite the litany of sorrow and 
circumstance. Let our parting words be the clarion.

Run. The lava is pouring down the mountainside, the locusts are eating the 
crops. Chernobyl is in flames, and the inmates have control of the asylum.

So, run. The dream is over, the jackals have snatched the baby from the cri=
b. You can only save yourselves. Please do so.

And don't stop running. Despite the sirens song and the narcotic fragrance
of the lotus. If you pause, you are lost. If they catch you, you will die.

We wish you the best. Like the Old actor in The Fantastiks, we say farewell,
we say "Remember us, in lights."
---

(Note - I reformatted this posting from SMG's insanely badly formatted
original text. I do not think I changed any words while doing this..
Harv)
