Nova Design, Inc. Enhances Internet Presence
 
For Immediate Release
 
Contact:        Bob Fisher
                Nova Design, Inc.
                1910 Byrd Ave, Suite 214
                Richmond, VA 23230
                804-282-5868
 
 
Richmond, VA - May 7, 1996.  Nova Design, Inc. has enhanced their presence
on the Internet dramatically with a move to their own Internet domain
allowing them to now host their web site, ftp site, and mailing list
directly!  Plans for Nova Design's Internet domain include expanding the
all new Aladdin 4D web, ftp sites and the new Aladdin 4D mailing list.
 
 
World Wide Web Site
 
As the gateway to all Nova Design Internet services. the web page 
features a state-of-the-art graphical interface, but maintains a 
complete text based interface as well.  The site is compatible with 
Netscape, yet retains backwards compatibility to Mosaic-style browsers. 
Information currently available online includes all of Nova Design's 
recent press releases regarding ImageFX and Aladdin 4D, complete product 
information, demonstration images of ImageFX special effects, 
information and tips, interactive areas for the press and end users to 
post in, as well as links to Amiga web sites and other web sites 
throughout the world. To reach and enjoy the web page site, use the 
following URL (Universal Resource Locator):
 
http://www.novadesign.com
 
 
FTP Site
 
You can upload sample projects, images and animations to the ImageFX FTP 
site.  Already on the site are some of the official upgrades of ImageFX 
2.1 and 2.1a and many user created Arexx scripts and hook programs to 
add to ImageFX.  An Aladdin 4D directory allows users of Nova Design's 
recently acquired 3D modeling and animation package to exchange files as 
well.  You can reach the site at: ftp.novadesign.com
 
 
Mailing Lists
 
The ImageFX mailing list was originally founded and moderated by Matt 
Perry and grew to become a fantastic resource for users of ImageFX.  A 
mailing list has been established for Aladdin 4D users as well. These 
email discussion forums provide the best method for interacting with 
other users, and Nova Design, for learning more about ImageFX and 
Aladdin 4D.  Current information on how to subscribe to these mailing 
lists is maintained on our web site.
 
 
Email Addresses
 
If you have additional questions or information, you may use the email 
links on the Web site to reach Nova Design, or you may contact us at our 
real-world address.
 
Kermit Woodall          kermit@novadesign.com 
Thomas Krehbiel         tom@novadesign.com 
Bob Fisher              bob@novadesign.com
 
 
ImageFX, PaintFX, AutoFX, CineMorph and Cinematte are trademarks of Nova 
Design, Inc.  All other trademarks are held by their respective owners.
