Nova Design, Inc. Shipping ImageFX 2.6
 
For Immediate Release
 
Contact:        Bob Fisher
                Nova Design, Inc.
                804-282-5868
 
Richmond, VA - Tuesday, May 07, 1996.  Nova Design, Inc. announced today 
that ImageFX 2.6 has begun shipping to fill all preorders for this exciting 
new upgrade.  This upgrade, announced less than a month previously, adds 
more features and functionality than can be found in any other Amiga 
graphics package!  See the list of features below.
 
 
Image Processing and Special Effects Made Easy
 
ImageFX 2.6 includes a number of technical breakthroughs and enhancements 
that allow users to easily create exciting special effects on single 
images or sequences using either the improved IMP and AutoFX programs 
included with ImageFX.  The new eff ects and functions that have been 
added allow quick "load it and do it" access to the basic effect, while 
providing a wealth of controls to allow near-infinite customization for 
the advanced user.  The new features include:
 
Complete Newtek Video Toaster/Flyer 4.1 Support.  Now loads and saves 
Toaster Framestores and Flyer Clips, and has the ability to framegrab, 
render and interactively preview your work directly on the Toaster's 
composite output.
 
Updated CyberGraphX Previewing.  Users of display cards using CyberGraphX 
software can now preview in any high color mode with full color realtime 
brush painting.  Additionally, CyberGraphX full color displays have been 
added to Cinemorph, the Amiga most popular morphing package, and Viewtek, 
the popular image and animation viewer.
 
New Fargo FotoFun Support. The low-cost Fargo FotoFun printer can now be 
driven directly from ImageFX to produce 24-bit accurate color photographic-
like output.
 
Hewlett-Packard Scanjet IIc/3c/4c Support.  Now all the latest Hewlett-
Packard scanners can be driven by ImageFX on most Amiga SCSI cards.
 
Newtek Digiview Support.  The Amiga's legacy of excellent hardware is not 
forgotten with the addition of support for Newtek's slowscan video 
digitizer; Digiview.  
 
New Wireless Program. This new program joins the ImageFX suite to provide 
sophisticated wire removal capabilities.  You can now remove wires holding 
actors or objects suspended in the air so you can make your super heros fly.
 
Updated Effects. ImageFX's ever popular Lightning now has multiple bolts 
and even more options than ever before. The Shear, Straw and Composite 
functions have been upgraded along with many other improvements throughout.
 
New Effects.  Many new special effects have been added in this release of 
ImageFX.  Animated Bubbles, Fire and Fire Rings, an all new Displace, wild 
Sparkles, Liquid image warping, Film Grain, Remove Grain and much more!
 
 
Web Site Support
 
Nova Design has a newly renovated web site on the Internet as well.  A 
complete feature list for ImageFX is maintained there along with all press 
releases and helpful information.  If you'd like to view the list of 
features found in ImageFX, point your web browser to the following URL 
address:  http://www.novadesign.com
 
 
Upgrade Price
 
The upgrade is priced at only $34.95, plus shipping and handling ($5.00 
US, $7.00 elsewhere), to registered owners of ImageFX 2.0 or higher.  
 
Contact our order lines at 1-800-IMAGE-69 or (804) 282-1157, orders can 
also be faxed to (804) 282-3768.  Write us at; Nova Design, Inc., 1910 
Byrd Ave, Suite 214, Richmond, VA 23230
 
ImageFX, AutoFX, IMP, Cinemorph and Wireless are all trademarks of Nova 
Design, Inc.  All other trademarks are held by their respective owners.
 
 
 
