This is the press release that appeared later today on
VIScorp's own Web page (http://www.vistv.com). The wording is
marginally different than the one Amiga Tech sent out.
--







FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE


VISCORP MOVES TO ACQUIRE LEADING TECHNOLOGY COMPANY

Letter of Understanding Signed by Escom AG, Amiga Technologies and VIScorp

Chicago, IL, April 11,1996 -- Visual Information Services Corp. (Nasdaq:
VICP, Bulletin Board), a developer of Interactive TV (ITV) set-top boxes to
enhance television use and viewing by providing Internet access and
electronic communications functions, announced that it has a binding
letter of understanding to acquire the assets of Amiga Technologies from
Escom AG. 

"We believe the Amiga television interface technology is clearly superior to
anything that now exists for ITV boxes," said William Buck, VIScorp's chief
executive officer. "Earlier this year, we licensed this technology for our
second-generation prototype box. The proposed acquisition of Amiga would
enable us to fully apply the proprietary technologies, patents and
copyrights that are vital to the appearance, user appeal and functionality
of our product." 

The proposed acquisition would include the intellectual property of the
former Commodore Business Machines, except Commodore trademarks. Terms were
not disclosed. The pending acquisition would be subject to the approval of
both boards of directors. 

Mr. Buck stated: "Aiding our time to market, the proposed acquisition of
Amiga would provide us with the installed base of our primary target market
for Internet-supported software program distribution, which may ultimately
lead to a new type of television network. This intended acquisition is part
of VIScorp's strategy to build market leadership in the fast-growing field
of ITV." 

Mr. Buck explained that the proposed acquisition would give VIScorp
ownership of Amiga intellectual properties, including several that are
currently used in its set-top Electronic Device (ED), as well as
control over the supply of chip sets used in ED, Amiga inventories, and
access to the company's sales and distribution channels. 

If the acquisition is completed, noted Mr. Buck, VIScorp anticipates
continued sales and support of popular Amiga computer models. Commenting
that the primary objective of the proposed acquisition is to give VIScorp
full access to the Amiga/Commodore technology to support development of its
ITV device, Mr. Buck said: "Our TVset-top interactive boxes would give home
users capabilities such as telephone reception and dial-up, facsimile,
pay-per-view options, electronic mail, access to online services, including
the Internet, and more." 

Product names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered
trademarks of their respective companies. 



VISCORP
111 North Canal Street, Suite 933
Chicago, IL 60606

Corporate Information Contact: Florine Radulovic

Voice 312.655.0903
FAX 312.655.0910
