Here are three "press releases" from http://www.pios.de, a new
German company formed as a successor to Amiga Tech, by the
ex-Pres of Amiga Tech. 

--


PIOS Computer AG i.G.


Happy Birthday!


Wednesday, May 15, is a remarkable date in the history
of computer consumer products.

After the failure of ESCOM to revitalize the AMIGA,
under the lead of former AMIGA-President Stefan Domeyer
a brand new company was founded:

PIOS Computer AG

The shareholders explained their commitment to enter
that riscy market and to create a successor for the
AMIGA community. Dr. Klaus F. Broker, an international
well respected business lawyer, was elected as the
Chairman of the Supervisory Board. After the first
meeting of the Supervisory Board, Dr. Broker stated:

" This was the start of a new company, but if you add
the experience and backround of all founders, PIOS will
show it4s will to succeed very soon. We decided to enter
the North American Market already in the initial phase.
Together with our partners, Mr. Dave Haynie and Mr. Andy
Finkel, we will found PIOS U.S. Incorporated within the
next four weeks."

The President and CEO, Mr. Stefan Domeyer, explained the
goals of PIOS:

 I know exactly the reasons we failed with AMIGA. The
only chance to keep it alive is a new start, without
some burdens due to the history. I think, the key to
success is simply to exceed our customers expectations
on performance, quality and price. We must do it as
fast, but as good as possible. So, we will form some
strategic alliances with companies who have shown their
capabilites in design." One of the initial shareholders
is Mr. John Smith, who will leave AMIGA Technologies to
build the UK operation of PIOS for Great Britain and all
affiliated markets. John Smith said:" I want a new
generation of Power PC4s, and I want to make it
successful in UK!"

( AMIGA is a registered trademark of Escom AG)

--


PIOS Computer AG i.G.


The PIOS Strategy

The mission of PIOS is to become a reasonable player in
the market for consumer computer products.

The goal is to reach an overall market share in all
countries PIOS goes into of 10 percent until the year
2000. PIOS as a company follows the strategy of
developing and marketing PowerPC- based architectures,
in strong competition to the Windows/Intel monopoly.

This includes the development and distribution of a
native operating system, which will be recognized by the
market as the next generation of the former AMIGA OS
3.1. To provide a preemptive multitasking OS with
quasi-real-time- behavior will be the biggest advantage
of PIOS.

PIOS recognizes it4s position as a start-up-company:
small staff, small costs, small overhead. PIOS is
heavily dependent on a good working relationship to it4s
customers, vendors, design-partners, employees and
shareholders. PIOS wants to become big in competence,
sales, market-share and shareholder-value.

( AMIGA is a registered trademark of Escom AG)


--


PIOS Computer AG i.G.


The PIOS Team

President & CEO

Stefan Domeyer, born 1961, has studied Managerial
Oeconomics with focus on Marketing. After the
examination he took various jobs in the businesses of
Advertising, Software-Development, Charted Accountants
and Telecommunications. Before founding PIOS he was the
president of AMIGA Technologies GmbH, in charge for
Finance, R&D and Market Communication. He is married and
has two children.

Chief Operating Officer

Geerd-Ulrich Ebeling, born 1963, was educated as an
industrial businessman. A couple of years he worked for
FUBA, a big german telecom company. The last 4 years he
was the manager of finance & control of Ericsson Eurolab
in Hildesheim. His last job was the same at Amiga
Technologies.

Chief Financial Officer

Ernst-Dieter Schlapp, born 1950, is a german MBA and
experienced in working as a chartered accountant. With
deep knowledge in managerial oeconomics, finance and
taxes, he was actually working as a consultant.

General Manager UK & Affiliated Countries

John Smith was for about 7 years the National Sales
Manager of Commodore UK. He will be in charge for all
selling and marketing activities in UK, India,
Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In all these
countries he will represent the company in every
respect, including press and software contacts.

Project Manager Software

Andy Finkel is President and CEO at an independent
software company in Pennsylvania. In the previous years,
he had a leading position in the Operating System
Development of former Commodore Amiga, Westchester. In
addition to the project of porting the OS to a native
PPC OS, he will be acting as the president of PIOS US
Inc.

Project Manager Hardware

David Haynie has studied electrical engineering at the
Carnegie Mellon University. He is one of the
godfathers" of the Amiga architecture. At the time
being, he is working as a Senior Hardware Engineer at
SCALA. Dave Haynie will be in charge for all hardware
design activities, in which he will play an active
design part as well.

Vice President Technology

Ronald Coates is electrical engineer with about twenty
years of experience in the computer industry: Tandem,
PRIME, Honeywell, Compaq, Ericsson and AMIGA have been
his working places. Ronald Coates will be in charge for
the management of Technology, including the project
management for joint R&D-projects. He will take care for
production issues as well as Total Quality Management.

Manager Support

Mr. X (as of July, 1st ) is well known in the AMIGA
market. Already at Commodore he was in charge for
Documentation and Support. He will do the same within
PIOS, additionally he will maintain the Internet
communication. He will participate in the design
activities as well as to act as a communication bridge
between PIOS R&D and third party developers.

( AMIGA is a registered trademark of Escom AG)
