
Bill Buck's Speech at Toulouse

Speech held by William 'Bill' Buck, CEO, VIScorp

Bensheim 05/21/96, Toulouse 05/19/96

Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen. Welcome to the Toulouse-Show.

I want to emphasize that this Press Conference is a working
conference. We asked you in the world of AMIGA shows to give us
your ideas and your initiate us. We`ve had so many ideas that
we've put in on the web site, and we had even more ideas. We had
over 2000 e-mails that have been provided by users for the future
of AMIGA. What we want to do here today, is we want to map out a
strategy to you and we think the future of AMIGA to be and we
want to make sure that you understand and we want to hear your
ideas and your opportunity to participate in that future. So, I
want to say before we began too much that excuse me for not
answering, excuse us for not answering all your e-mail. You can
imagine that we had millions and millions of e-mail messages that
if there`s something that you would like us us to respond to that
we haven`t responded to yet. You can be sure that I am responding
to my e-mail as well as the rest of us now. In some cases Eric as
an example has done a fantastic job, he personally answered over
2000 e-mail messages himself and Carl was probably on the record
for good 1000 himself as well.

I will try to speak slowly, I know I have got a funny American
accent but so, I try to do that. First, I do apologize for the
confusion about today. In the world of AMIGA show we`ve said that
we will have a press conference in Germany around the end of the
month. Because we had so many ideas come from you, in a community
as a whole that said this kind of thing might be better, because
we want to show the people and the press that we talking about
what we are doing and we are doing what we`re doing. And so
somehow on the process of that information I think we got a
little confused and we still had some information on the AMIGA
Technologies web site that was different than ours and I
apologize for that, especially to the people on the German AMIGA
community who I don`t want to feel excluded at all. We try to
answer a lot of questions before we came here about what our
intentions were for AMIGA. It`s our intention today to try to
answer all the rest of the questions that you might have.

So I`d ask out of respect for everybody in the world to hold
their questions until we get to that point of the presentation
today. We want to give you as much information as we can, when I
finish my conversation Raquel Valesco will give you the high
points in French and in Spanish. Raquel stand up please. Raquel
has been the driving force behind this conference that was her
idea and the way it was organized and we proceeded was to her
credit.

We also have Eric Laffont, Eric stand up please. Eric really is
an employee, he has business cards and please take one from him.
And Eric really is the man who devises the survey and who
implemented it and he did such a fantastic job answering all the
e-mails. Thank you Eric. In addition to that, there was a staff
of people very nervous who also helped physically support today
.I really appreciate what they did for us. We have the rest of
Viscorp Team here, we start here with Don Gilbreath, Carl
Sassenrath, David Rosen and we have Curtiz Gangi, so here he is,
and we have Petro Tyschtschenko and Stefan Haas. Okay .

Let`s talk first about the AMIGA transaction. Okay, Bill Buck and
Helmut Jost made a deal. It`s based on trust, it`s based on a
handshake and it will probably based on this much paper when it`s
all finished. Okay, It`s not finished. Okay, Bill Buck and Helmut
Jost have a deal , and it`s done. Viscorp will be the owner of
AMIGA. One more thing I like to say about this. Raquel and I last
week were the guest of the New York Stock Exchange. And we stood
in the member`s gallery with the treasury and the secretary of
the New York Stock Exchange, the biggest capital market in the
world. He told us that the reason why the Stock Exchange works is
because two people have a trust. And trust is based on a "purple"
agreement and for three days there`s nothing written. There`s no
transaction. This agreement that Helmut Jost and I have at this
point is we`ve waiting for this is based on trust and that's why
we don`t feel uncomfortable with this meeting today, and that`s
why I'm sure that this transaction will be completed.

The second thing I like to say for the record is that Viscorp is
committed to the future of the AMIGA computer. We`re committed to
the AMIGA computer because we think the AMIGA computer represents
a valuable choice to the market place and we believe it can be a
profitable business. We think that means that we're gonna have to
make some changes. We're gonna have to lever up the good things
that have happened in the past and try to step beyond the things
that everybody doesn't agree about. The difficulties that the
platform has had in general don`t and we think we can do that and
I will come back to that in a minute. Certainly, we believe in
the operating system. We licensed it in December because we
believe in the operating system. The fact that this opportunity
was created for Viscorp because of the difficulties of ESCOM have
anything to do with our believe in the operating system. We
believe in the operating system. We think it still lives. The
only multimedia and multitasking operating system in the world in
our opinion. The second thing is and probably the most important
thing is we believe in you. We believe in the community. Without
a community of people like AMIGA has AMIGA will be just like
everybody else. You guy are fanatics ! You can believe the
thousands of e-mail messages I got. We asked you for your ideas
at the AMIGA show and we were amazed by how many ideas came back
to us. It was overwhelming. So, what we realized is that there is
a future for AMIGA that absolutely no doubt about it like any
development community. There had to be support, but this was
going to be a little different in this case. Your ideas from
everything you can imagine and we`re gonna take advantage of all
those ideas. The first step we wanna make to you, the community,
is that we are ready to listen. We think we demonstrated that we
have the capacity to do that and that it's not our intention to
change in that respect at all. The second thing we want to share
with you are the results of our survey. We think it`s very vital
information and we intend to do that on our website. That's in
fact how we intend to get a lot of information to you in the
future. We hope in the next few weeks to post documentation on
the website that will support you. We know that there are people
who can`t find this vital documentation that they need to do the
things they want. We`re gonna try to get back and use our website
as our best means of communication to the community. You can't
imagine all the different places in the world that we're talking
to people about us.

We have a clear vision for what we want to do in the future and
we believe we can support that vision. Let me just say from the
outset that we think that in 1997 there will be more AMIGAs sold
than we ever had been before. Most of those AMIGAs are gonna be
our products and in products. It`s not gonna happen because
little Viscorp makes them, it`s gonna happen because big
companies decide to license the technology and put technology
into existing products that they have. In the next few weeks
there will be an announcement from us about a big company that
makes TV-sets. We`re gonna put these things inside the TV set.
First, as we get ready to talk about the ED and I'm sorry to say
that we just have the ED in NTSC-version today because we had to
develop our own operating system in the beginning which Carl
wrote too by the way. It only works in this environment right
now. That`s the great thing about AMIGA, it works in all the
other environments. You`ll be able to see that product very
shortly, but today we want to show you our ED, in black and white
only, sorry.

Two things to remember here: The first thing is with all you
AMIGA guys, we know you have a great imagination, so pretend it`s
in color. The second thing is that television technology hasn't
changed in four years. It's a great thing about what we are
proposing to do. The computer changes every week, there`s a
faster processor, there`s more memory and there`s a new version
of windows 95, it takes 95 megabytes. There`s lots of different
things that are happening. This environment hasn`t changed. It`s
a stable environment. It`s a very fertile field for us to do
something, fantastic things. One thing I would like to say before
I get into the little demonstration of our ED. The past is the
past, okay, I don't care about what happened before. This is a
new deal. Don`t whine on me about this or that. Look, I know that
I`m not talking to you people because you are here on sunday
morning but there are a lot of people in the community that are
still upset about things that happened before. This is something
new. We`re going forward, we`re going to demonstrate it every
step of the way we`re going to go. That as an example that there
are specific things that when we know we`re gonna do we will tell
you.

I can tell you right now a walker before Christmas, I don't think
so, okay. I think there may be some other company that may
decide: It was a good idea. Okay, we don`t have a power PC port
ready for Christmas. We got to do something, we have parts and
hardware that can take advantage of the OS. We got to show these
people that we are moving Great idea, it`s a prototype. Somebody
wants to pick up the ball and run with it. We`re ready to try to
support that person. And in the same way, still even this month
there were people at AMIGA Technologies that were talking about
the walker being introduced this year. All I can say is that this
person in particular doesn't work at AMIGA Technologies anymore.
There are a lot of people that don't work at AMIGA Technologies
anymore. The ones that we feel have something to add to what
we`re doing in the future are still there and work silent about
then. And we have to put all that stuff behind us. That was just
a little example.

Now what is Viscorp going to do for AMIGA? First thing is, we're
gonna introduce a new operating system by the fourth quarter. If
there are companies on the high end that have an interest in
porting over the AMIGA OS to another processor, maybe the power
PC. We're happy to support those people. No problem. We think
there's another solution to this. We've been in conversations
with DEC about the Alpha Chip, that can do 300 megahertz right
now. We think that might be the right way to really boost the
video. I think that`s something that we are going to be working
on and you might see something about that in the middle of 1997.
Also on the low end we have our products. Our products are ready.
We're gonna talk to you about them later. These things can be
adapted in certain ways that can add new functionality to the
A1200 level products. And we think there are some ways so that we
can tweak the A1200 too. Or we can speed up the bus or something
like that to help us get the chipsets to work a little faster. We
think we can do a lot of things and that's why we wanna hear from
you people because we think you might have ideas we don't know
about. And we want to leverage off those. We're happy to let you
participate in those idea`s success.Okay. So, before I start
talking about the ED, I`m going to ask Raquel to cover the main
points in French and Spanish, just to make sure we're all
together before we go to the next step. Raquel, please.

Thanks very much to Simone Pawletzki for listening very carefully
to the tape and typing it all. Thanks to Christoph Guelicher for
helping, deciphering, guessing and contributing to the missing
parts.

CONTACT:

www.vistv.com

Amiga is a registered trademark of ESCOM AG



Return to the Amiga Web Directory


Champaign-Urbana Commodore Users Group / cucug@cucug.org
