


Miller Freeman, Inc.
600 Harrison Street
San Francisco, CA 94107, USA
Telephone: +1 (415) 905-2200
Fax: +1 (415) 905-2232

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

For more information contact:
Pat Cameron (415) 655-4108 or
Michael Kornet (408) 743-9250

MILLER FREEMAN ACQUIRES DIGITAL VIDEO AND 3D ANIMATION PUBLICATIONS/
CONFERENCES

(San Francisco) May 21, 1996 -- Continuing its rapid expansion in the
digital communications and entertainment market, Miller Freeman, Inc. has
purchased the publications and conferences of AMG Media, Inc., based in
Sunnyvale, CA.  AMG Media's properties include three magazines, Video
Toaster User, LIGHTWAVEPRO, and Alpha Visual FX, as well as the Video
Toaster User Expo and Video Toaster and LightWave 3D training conferences.
	"These magazines are high quality, targeted editorial products and
represent a unique opportunity to increase our presence in the rapidly
expanding digital video and 3D animation markets," said Pat Cameron, Vice
President of Miller Freeman's newly formed Entertainment Technology Group. 
"The Video Toaster and LightWave 3D exhibitions and conferences have also
been very successful and fit perfectly with our event philosophy," she
added.
	Michael D. Kornet, who became the President of AMG Media in February
1994, has joined Miller Freeman as the Publishing Director of the new
digital video and 3D animation publications.  "Interactive products such as
CD-ROMs are comprised of three main content ingredients: music, video, and
animation," explained Kornet.  "Miller Freeman's Entertainment Technology
Group now includes leading publications in the music, video, 3D animation,
and interactive industries.  No other publishing company has a larger
commitment to these emerging markets," he added.
	AMG Media founder and CEO, Jim Plant, has been retained by Miller
Freeman as a consultant.  The rest of the AMG Media staff will join Miller
Freeman's Entertainment Technology Group which now includes nine
publications: InterActivity, Music & Computers, Keyboard, Guitar Player, How
to Play Guitar, Bass Player, Video Toaster User, LIGHTWAVEPRO, and Alpha
Visual FX.
	The operations of Video Toaster User, LIGHTWAVEPRO, Alpha Visual FX and
the exhibitions and conferences will remain in Sunnyvale, CA for several
months, and then transfer to Miller Freeman's regional office in San Mateo,
CA.
	Headquartered in San Francisco, Miller Freeman, Inc. is one of the
largest publishing and exhibition companies in the United States.  It
publishes 78 magazines and manages 85 trade show and conference events.  A
wholly owned subsidiary of United News & Media plc, Miller Freeman is also
the North American arm of United News & Media's global magazine and
exhibition business, which comprises 203 trade shows and 220 business
publications in the U.S., Europe, and Asia operating under the Miller
Freeman name.*

# # #

*For a brochure describing Miller Freeman's worldwide operations, call Linda
Werner at (415) 905-2311.
	
