    VIScorp - Memo 29-June-96

June 19, 1996 - Chicago, IL  USA

VISCORP VALUES THE AMIGA

System Improvements

 In the months ahead, VIScorp will be making substantial improvements to the
Amiga system architecture, including both the hardware design and the operating
system software.  These advanced new systems will be developed not only for our
upcoming Set Top Boxes, but also for future Amiga Desk Top Computers.  VIScorp
is investing considerable resources into engineering these improvements.

 One of the primary objectives of VIScorp's business plan is to develop,
manufacture, market, and sell Amiga Desk Top Computer Systems.

Architecture Group

 Many of the above improvements require an in-depth knowledge of specialty
markets and technologies.  Because of this, VIScorp made the decision in May
1996 to form an Architectural Design Group consisting of a small number of
highly qualified Amiga experts.  While this group is still in its early
formation stage, we intend it to oversee and resolve the numerous suggestions
and enhancements that must be addressed for the long term success of the Amiga.

Technology Licenses

 As stated above, VIScorp will research and develop valuable enhancements to th
e
architecture and technology of the Amiga, resulting in a wide range of next
generation, price competitive computer products.

 There are, however, situations in which it makes sense for VIScorp to license
Amiga related technology to qualified companies whose business objectives are
consistent with VIScorp's long range plan.  Such agreements may include binary,
ROM, and documentation licenses for the distribution of Amiga OS upgrades, 
hardware and software system licenses for specialty markets, and possibly sourc
e
code co-development licenses to help expand the Amiga and its feature set into
the next decade.

Property Rights Infringement

 It has come to our attention that several companies plan to build their own
"compatible" or "extended" versions of the Amiga without obtaining the proper
licensing from VIScorp.  These companies will be placing themselves at legal
risk, because their systems will undoubtedly infringe on Amiga intellectual
property rights, including copyrights, patents, and trade secrets.

 In addition, we have recently become aware that versions of the Amiga System
ROMs are being reproduced and distributed without proper licensing.  This is a
violation of international copyright law, and VIScorp will prosecute offenders
to the full extent of the law.

 Realize that VIScorp is purchasing Amiga Technologies at great expense for
ownership of precisely the above property rights and considers them a
fundamental asset of the company.  As such, VIScorp intends to aggressively
defend its position as the owner of the Amiga and its related technologies. 
Companies that choose to violate the law are well advised to consider the easie
r
and less costly path of obtaining a license.

 If you have important comments regarding the above statement,
please send us email, using a subject line of "We Value Amiga".

 Your mail will be read carefully, but please realize that we cannot directly
respond to all mail.

 [ [http://www.vistv.com/index.html] VIScorp Home|
[http://www.vistv.com/instaff.html] Corporate Staff]

 Return to the Amiga Web Directory

Champaign-Urbana Commodore Users Group / cucug@cucug.org

      < Converted by HTMLess v2.0 by Troglobyte/Darkness. Only Amiga... >
