
Escom Files for Protection from Creditors

 July 5, 1996 (CUCUG) - For Escom (and probably the Amiga itself), the sale of
Amiga Technologies couldn't have come at a better time. According to published
reports, Escom has filed for protection from its creditors, a move which is ver
y
similar to the filling for "Chapter 11" bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Under
this arrangement a German court would allow Escom to continue to operate and to
pay its debt to creditors in a structured fashion.

By Escom's own estimations, the company had piled up losses of over $117 millio
n
last year after the profitability of the PC market in Europe was turned on its
head by fierce competition from off-shore vendors and soft demand among home
users. Escom also is accused of making some questionable acquisitions (e.g., 20
0
retail shops in the UK, Commodore/Amiga and Hagenuk, a telecom hardware
manufacturer) and attempting to grow too fast in a very volatile market.

A "crisis" meeting was held with shareholders and potential new investors on
Tuesday to try to figure out what to do. Unfortunately for Escom, new investors
were unconvinced and denied infusing enough cash into the beleaguered PC maker
to pull it out of its current tailspin. The company was then forced to make
Wednesday's announcement.

Earlier in the week, Escom had indicated that it would initiate a restructuring
plan and would close 65 of its 235 retail shops in Britain, additional stores i
n
Europe, sell off sub-companies (like Amiga Technologies) and reduce its
workforce from 4,400 to 2,500--an eventual 43% reduction in employees.

For Escom, the reported $40 million selling price of its Amiga Technologies uni
t
will help, but is more like a drop in the bucket especially since an undisclose
d
portion of the amount is in VIScorp stock.

 Copyright 1996, CUCUG. All rights reserved. No reposting or retransmission of
this material is permitted.

 Return to the Amiga Web Directory

Champaign-Urbana Commodore Users Group / cucug@cucug.org

      < Converted by HTMLess v2.0 by Troglobyte/Darkness. Only Amiga... >
