
Miller Freeman, Inc.
600 Harrison Street
San Francisco, CA 94107 
USA
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

For more information contact:
Patricia Cameron (415) 655-4108 or
Michael Kornet (408) 743-9250


MILLER FREEMAN ACQUIRES
DIGITAL VIDEO (DV) MAGAZINE

(San Francisco) July 10, 1996 -- Moving rapidly to expand its presence in the
digital communications and entertainment market, Miller Freeman, Inc., has
acquired the publications and electronic media of ActiveMedia, a subsidiary
of IDG. ActiveMedia's properties include Digital Video (DV) magazine; DV
Live, its related website; and the newsletters, Full Motion and Planet
Studio.

"These properties complement the recent acquisitions of Video Toaster User,
LIGHTWAVEPRO, and AlphaVisual FX from AMG Media, Inc. Bringing together these
publications, conferences, newsletters and electronic media solidifies our
position in the digital video and 3D animation markets," said Patricia
Cameron, Vice President of Miller Freeman's recently formed Entertainment
Technology Group.

Michael D. Kornet, Publishing Director of MFI's new digital video and 3D
animation publications explained, "Miller Freeman now has the leading
publications covering the three main content areas of interactive
products--music, video and animation. "In fact," he added, "no other
publishing company has made a larger commitment to these emerging markets."

The addition of the ActiveMedia titles will bring the number of publications
in MFI's Entertainment Technology Group to a total of twelve, including:
InterActivity, Music & Computers, Video Toaster User, LIGHTWAVEPRO, ALPHA
Visual FX, Keyboard, Guitar Player, How to Play Guitar, Bass Player, Digital
Video (DV), Full Motion and Planet Studio.

The operations of DV, DV Live, Full Motion and Planet Studio will remain in
their current San Francisco location for a short time and then will be
transferred to Miller Freeman's San Francisco headquarters and San Mateo
regional office.

Headquartered in San Francisco, Miller Freeman, Inc. is one of the largest
publishing and exhibition companies in the United States. It publishes 80
magazines and manages 85 trade shows and conference events. A wholly owned
subsidiary of United News & Media plc, Miller Freeman is also the North
American arm of United News & Media's global magazine and exhibition
business, which comprises 203 trade shows and 220 business publications in
the U.S., Europe, and Asia operating under the Miller Freeman name.
