[captured from the Amiga Web Directory at www.cucug.org/amiga.html]
--	
Infos: HTTX 1.0

Title: VIScorp Information from the ACMontreal Convention


[Image]
VIScorp Information from the ACMontreal Convention

Date: Thu, 08 Aug 1996 11:04:18 -0400
From: Paper Tiger <slntpaw@ix.netcom.com>
Organization: Silent Paw Productions, Inc.
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.hardware
To: Carl Eric Codere <codc01@gel.usherb.ca>
Subject: AC 96 Notes and Discussions

I thought I would post this. It is a summary of AC96 discussions with Mr.
Rosen, Jason Compton and others.

The following is a paraphrased transcript by Paul Sadlik of a speech and
follow up questions with David Rosen (the Vice President for Business
Development of VIScorp) at the ACMontreal convention on August 3rd, 1996.
There are some additional comments in the text by Jason Compton (JC), who is
now working with VIScorp.

==========================

To begin with, Commodore and Escom put everything they had into killing the
platform. We want to make the Amiga live and we will be successful.

Background

VIScorp was started by Roger Remillard in 1990. Don Gilbreath was brought in
and developed a proprietary OS for the ED Box. Eventually we ended up
licensing technology from the Amiga.

It became quickly clear that Escom had no money and that they had no idea
what to do with the Amiga. As our relationship with Escom developed, it
became clear that we should make an effort to get control of the Amiga. As
licensees, we weren't close enough to controlling the development of the
Amiga.

We believe in the Amiga OS. Our goal is to have two lines of business,
including moving forward the Amiga OS. We also have the UITI with Emerson and
the ED Box. This is or can be a large, wide open set top business. There is
no Bill Gates standing in the way. Hopefully in the next month, we hope to
get more licensing deals that can be used to finance the computer side of the
business.

The dominance of the Microsoft/WinTel monopoly can leave a good niche for
high end and low end machines. The set top box side can support the Amiga
computer side financially and the development on the Amiga side can support
the Set top box side.

For the Amiga, our goal in the short term is to come out with an 060
accelerator board.

We are also putting together an architectural design group. We want the best
people to work in this open group to design the future Amiga. We will
hopefully have some announcements next week of what they will do. There will
be more people/engineers brought on board next week too.

This weekend, we came to thank you for supporting the platform and to show
our support of the platform.

QUESTIONS:

Q: Tell us more about your set top boxes?

Basically the UITI is an 1200/020. It provides access to the Internet and the
WWW. It has also got a built in speaker phone, callerID, and telephone
functions. With it you can send and receive faxes and Email. It is actually a
stripped down version of the ED device.

The ED box will be out next February (?). It has a tuner (for cable) and a
card swipe device. It has a modular communications port designed for a 28.8
modem, ISDN adapter, Ethernet, Cable modems, etc - whatever is needed.

-----

Q: Have you made any pitches to TCI - and how do you compare with other set
top

boxes?

We are going after the smaller cable guys, since the large companies want
more commitments than we could make. With the UITI box, we are talking with
cable companies about leasing it to them and then they will rent them to
their customers. We recently set up a test system for Booth Cable in Michigan
called "BoothNet" with UITI boxes and a telephone connections to a Internet
server. The test customers loved having this simple Internet connection, the
callerID, the speaker phone.

With such systems we are providing the cable companies with a new additional
form of revenue. Right now the cable system sucks (that's a technical term) -
the systems are one way. So we bypass those systems with phone lines for
going up stream. The users used our systems, liked them and that gives the
cable company an edge in the

increasing competition.

---

Q: Will there be a difference between the set top boxes and the Amiga?

The Amiga is an open system, allowing the user to plug things into it. While
the new ED box is a set top box, users can still use ports for floppy drives,
keyboards, etc. We have also designed a new remote control that provides a
small built in QWERTY keyboard to let people interact.

---

Q: What about a cable adapter for the Amiga?

There probably will be an Amiga ED card later. The browser we are working on
will work on the Amiga, The RISC things probably will not run on the set top
boxes, its too expensive. The set top box will probably have four megabytes
or RAM, it will have room for a CD-Rom drive, it will run with Amiga OS, it
will run Amiga applications.

We are trying to get a 300 dollar box out there and there are zillions of
people out there that don't care what the box is. The browser will be
designed to allow users to go directly to our server and buy more Amiga stuff
and turn their boxes into computers.

-----

Q: Will the ED software run on Amigas?

Of course.

We are also working with a group for developers to support the Amiga. We will
have a password protected Amiga Internet site for developers. We hope to
bring back the core Amiga developers and game guys, etc.

----

Q: What about all the proprietary software (Real Audio, Shockwave, etc) on
the net?

We've talked with Sun about Java. Initially, we were thinking of trying to
include in the set top boxes, but decided that would be too much at one time.
We didn't feel it was appropriate to contact everyone yet.

------

Q: What about big companies and what about the hardware OS?

We have had discussions with everyone that was relevant. We've talked with
Motorola, DEC, etc. Once everything happens legally, then we will do
something concrete. Give us another month.

----

Q: Where will the old German Amiga Technologies (AT) fit in all this?

We are very aware that AT did an awful job. They never talked with folks in
the UK, Italy, France, etc. Petro will probably stay in a selling capacity in
Germany, since he knows the retail system/channels.

But Petro gave away the United Kingdom. We want to change that.

---

Q: What are the possibilities of new markets? China? India?

YES THERE ARE! There was a company in China, called New Star that bought the
Chinese distribution rights for the 020, 030, 040 Amigas from Escom. We have
been meeting with them and discussed future possibilities. We are very
optimistic about what can happen there.

----

Q: Where is the company's focus going to be?

VIScorp has focused on the set top box, we are still trying to figure out
what to do with the Amiga computer. That's the idea of the Architectural
Design group. They will work on it and figure out where we can go with the
platform, the OS, the processor question, etc.

JC: We are here to find out what has to go and what has to stay in the future
machines. What do you want to buy in new Amigas?

---

Q: What about the Walker computer shown by Amiga Technologies?

The Walker was nothing. There was never anything there. It was barely running
and still needed a lot of work.

The idea is that we will move forward. We will give out licenses as long as
there are standards (from the Architectural Design group) followed and the
sensitivity to the historic issues that the users might want.

----

Q: What about platform/CPU independence?

JC: There is only one company successfully shrink wrap OS's . They can run
their OS on 8 processors at once. Maybe the Architectural Design group can
lay it out and someone else can implement the OS on other platforms.

DR: I'm not an engineer, but I've heard Carl and Don talk about this. When
they have put the OS on any RISC chip, they will be able easily be to port it
from machine to machine.

----

Q: What about the Motorola PowerPC (PPC) RISC chips and the PowerPC platform
standard?

The standards group will look into it. They don't know if they want to get
that involved in something that Apple has had there hands on. They want
something they want to make the Amiga desktop systems unique.

----

Q: Do you want Amiga software to work on your set top boxes, etc.

Our goal is not to sell software, but Amiga software should run on the set
top boxes.

---

Q: Your buying the Amiga makes commercial sense for your set top box
business, but sinking millions of dollars into a niche computer platform
isn't bound to have a short or certain return. Why are you doing this?

There are two reasons we are buying the Amiga and going to build Amiga
computers - defensive and offensive.

Defensively, we wanted to protect the OS and chipset to save our set top
boxes. Escom was doing little with it and falling apart. In the Escom
bankruptcy, the Chinese were bidding for Amiga Technologies too and they had
few clues what they were buying or what to do with it.

Offensively, we believe there are enough people interested to provide a
successful niche for the Amiga computers. It just needs to be done right.

----

Q: What can you tell us about the Amiga's presence at the Olympics?

There was a guy named Keith Cagle that brought in his 2500 Toaster system to
the media center since there were so many people Europe and Latin America
that couldn't deal with the Panasonic and Sony editing systems there. So he
made some calls and got a number of Amiga developers to loan 6 complete
Toaster/Flyer systems for he

journalists to use.

---

Q: What is the status with Phase5, PIOS and the Chinese?

Phase 5 has been talking with Jason Compton and they are cooperating. In
private communications they have been much more cooperative than on the
Internet.

When Escom went bankrupt, PIOS, the Chinese and VIScorp were the bidders for
the Amiga.

DR: As they say in marketing, we want Amiga technology to "have legs". We
want it to have a number of lines of expansion - to keep moving and
advancing. The Amiga as a computer is one those avenues.

----

Q: What is your marketing strategy for America?

We take final possession of Amiga technology and rights on September 19th. We
are here now to develop our strategies and find out what the users want.
Check our web site for more developments.

This will be our Phoenix strategy.

----

What plans have you got for incorporating 3D technologies into the Amiga? The
Cybergraphics 3D standard?

We want to see the Cybergraphics effort. Then look into possible chip sets,
boards and software. After all that we will be able to say more.

============================================

The following is a paraphrased transcript of a questions and answers panel
held with David Rosen (DR) and Jason Compton (JC) of VIScorp, and Dale Larson
(DL) of Intangible Assets Manufacturing and formerly of Commodore. This panel
was held on August 4th at the ACMontreal convention.

---

Q: Will there be a stop gap machines released before the RISC Amigas?

JC: We have a current inventory to machines to clear out. Also we don't want
to "Obourne" ourselves.

The distribution channels needs to be more streamlined. No one knew who to
buy from. In the U.S., we will use QuikPak, in Germany we will use the former
Amiga Technologies. Distribution will be much better.

DL: Getting a new product out the door (even if already designed) would cost
time and already limited resources from the RISC machines.

DR: This pushes the end point out for development of the RISC machines. I'd
rather see the time for the Power Amigas, so we could get them out in the
least possible time (12 months?).

---

Q: What about just cost reducing the existing Amigas and getting their prices
to PC comparable levels?

JC: If we sell you a cheap amiga now, will you buy another one (the RISC
Amiga) in a few months? This would cripple later RISC Amiga sales to the
community. Just doing cheap machines wont do it.

DR: Any cheap machine will be compared with the performance (RAM, CPU power,
etc) of the WinTel group. How well would these old Amigas sell?

---

Q: What about the Walker shown by Escom in the Spring?

JC: Don Gilbraith said that the Walker would take longer to finish than doing
a similar, new machine from the ground up. It was not designed by Amiga
people and it would hard to finish and make compatible.

----

Q: What can be done to give the Amiga momentum again?

DR: Initially, our attempt at VIScorp was to bring the Amiga back to life
with set top boxes and let the network (Internet) be our channel to reaching
the users for software, etc. But with the Amiga computer, it is dependent on
the retail channel. We originally wanted to only do the set top boxes and
then do the computer in 2 years.

Since getting involved with the purchase and the Amiga community, we have
decided to work on Amiga computers, without trying to hinder our long term
goals for the set top boxes.

JC: We are hoping to convince developers to wait a year for the new Amigas.

DL: Frankly, No - Developers cannot wait for the future (without sales unless
VIScorp decides to hand out welfare checks.

----

Q: Will you use the Internet to support existing Amiga users?

DR: We are way ahead of you. We are going to use a California networking
company to run our server and have an area to support developers with
complete on-line docs. We want to see the Internet hold the community
together. We build the necessary system in a piecemeal process.

DL: That used to be taken care of by CATS. Lately the Olaf Barthell's CD-Rom
came out full of development materials for the support of developers.
Everything that was secret under Commodore should be made public, all the
development notes, newsletters, etc.

---

Q: What's going to happen with the assembly lines?

JC: There weren't any owned by Amiga Technologies. Everything was produced
under contract on a shipment by shipment basis, so the lines weren't running
full time anyway. They will do more 1200s and 4000s as needed.

---

Q: What is the strategy for enlarging the amiga market?

JC: That's why we are here. We are committed to selling the Amiga. We want to
find the best method by which to do this.

DR: We want to work with anyone. Lets say you are a reseller. For example,
there are people in Australia selling Amigas to the government for schools.
We do all we can to help him, but he needs to do all he can do to. We provide
the turnkey stuff that we can (adjust our prices, etc), but we have limited
resources. Still, we will help any serious projects to the limits of our
abilities.

With bigger deals we can do more. For example, we are going in a couple of
days to one of the Canadian phone companies and making a set top box
demonstration. A local Amiga guy put us together with them and we are going
to see them.

With smaller companies that can support local buyers, we will support them
and hope they can handle pushing the Amiga.

---

Q: Plans on licensing to other manufacturers?

JC: Wherever it makes sense, we will do it. We will make deals with any
machines - even provide our designs. Show us the marketing plans, etc - if
its good, sure.

DR: We are setting up the architectural design group to create the standards
and protocols of the future operating systems and platforms. This will
determine what people must do to build Amiga computers.

JC: We will lead this Architecture group and keep control of the shape of the
operating system. We saw what PIOS and phase5 were doing and I was the first
one to say this wouldn't be good. In such a small market and platform, we
couldn't afford to have things split up between rivals Amiga versions.

DR: We are buying intellectual rights and we will go to court to protect
them.  Keeping people from making unsanctioned Amiga variants is part of
that.

----

Q: from Greg Scott of National Amiga (Canadian Mail Order Co.):

I'm scared that the price on these machines will not come down. I can't sell
them at those prices.

DR: I don't know what the pricing thing is. We are aware of this and know we
will have to do something with it and are looking into our options.

----

Q: What about the RISC chip for the Amiga?

DR: No work has been done. There's been lots of talk, with Motorola and
others. No decisions have been made. No one wants to make and deals with
anyone until the ownership of the Amiga is finally settled.

JC: The engineers have taken some flexibility in this decision of RISC chips.
Things have changed in the last year affecting the prior Motorola PowerPC
decision and the engineers want to make sure they choose the best solution.

DL: Keep in mind, things have changed in the computer world - IBM was saying
that OS/2 was going to come out on the PowerPC's and they didn't. Apple is
going down faster than the Amiga.

JC: We know something has to be decided fast.

DR: We have been in discussions with people including Motorola. We know we
are going to RISC, the rest is a technical discussion for the engineers. What
kind of support will the chip company provide? How much help will they
provide?

DL: There's a lot of work to be done. There has to be a lot of software work
done. It is more than porting the Exec and emulation doesn't work (as Apple
found). There has to be a lot of work done to the operating system to bring
it closer to other platforms.

---

Q: We have to keep the same software, is it possible?

DL: The operating system is showing a lot of age. Developers need to get the
kind of support from the OS that other OS's provide. There is a lot of work,
a lot of architectural issues, a lot of API changes that have to be made. It
is not easy, it can't be done by the third parties, etc.

BF (Bob Fisher of Nova Design - in the audience): When all the graphics cards
came and we were faced with having to rewrite everything we did for every
card. THANK YOU Cybergraphics - they saved us a lot of time and money, by
letting us write for one standard. This is what we need.

VIScorp has to communicate with developers. They have to give the developers
info on what's going on in time to get things done. Let us work with
everything as soon as possible.

JC: Whatever we do. We will let everyone know what we do and there will be no
surprises - like with the Walker demo at CeBit.

---

Q: "Don't make a war with Phase5. Take 2 years, do it right. In the meantime,
give us 060's cheap."

DR: We are putting out 060 boards for 4000's (maybe 3000's) in the Fall. I
don't know how much they will cost. I think it will be a bit more than our
cost.

Phase 5 cannot re-engineer the Amiga without violating the patents and
licenses that we are buying. We will protect our rights. They also don't have
Motorola's support for their project yet.

----

Q: "Work on the RISC machines and add an 060 and 10 MBs of RAM for 1200s at
low prices. Everyone will buy and average users will be very happy."

DR: It's something to think about. I'm curious, do we really need an interim
box? Would an 060 box do it?

---

Q: Any plans for a super computer?

DR: Yeah, that's our coke machine

---

Q: What did the management say was the reason Sun dropped the deal with
Commodore or Amiga based workstations?

DL: They said they didn't want to do it?

---

Q: What can you tell us about the BeBox?

JC: They flew me out to see it. They got a lot of press and recognition,
proof that someone thought a third computer was a real possibility. The Be
opened a door that the Amiga rebirth could walk through.

Half their company says "we should be selling computers" and the other half
is saying "we should be selling software and OS's". They have a lot of
infighting.

DR: We talked with Jean-Louis Gasse and they are in a mess. They don't know
what they want to do. They thought we were going to let the Amiga die and
they wanted to "cream skim the Amiga users and developer base". Since we
bought the Amiga and talked with them, their hopes have dimmed.

The multi-processing play is not far from what our engineering team has been
thinking about. Carl has thought about it and has a board supporting this in
mind. Please wait for more on this.

----

Closing Comments

DR: We know you have gone through great adversity. With your strength, you
saved he Amiga. We came to indicate that we are going to bring the Amiga back
to the North American market.

We also want to make it so Amiga users can just press a button on their
Amigas and reach the community, get hundreds of answers to questions and
access to developers and so.

Shawn

Return to the Amiga Web Directory

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Champaign-Urbana Commodore Users Group / cucug@cucug.org
