Infos: HTTX 1.0

Title: CMP Article


[Image]

[Help Is A Click Away]

[Next Article] [Return to Article List] [Link to Article] [New Search]

[Image]

August 19, 1996
Issue: 915
Section: News
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Set-top maker buys rights to pc world's grande dame -- Hola, Amiga:rebirth of
a platform

By Craig Matsumoto

Chicago - A blast from the past will blow through the personal-computing
world this week when the rights to Amiga-once the property of defunct PC
pioneer Commodore-are turned over to Visual Information Systems Corp.
(VIScorp)

VIScorp, a set-top-box maker based here, is promising improved versions of
the aging but still respected platform. It's the same promise that Escom AG
(Heppenheim, Germany), Amiga's previous owner, made two years ago but
ultimately failed to fulfill.

VIScorp is not the only company with big plans for Amiga; two German
companies are separately working to port the platform to the PowerPC chip.
Those who wrote off Amiga years ago may find there's life in the old girl
yet.

That's something the computing cognoscenti have known all along. People call
the Macintosh community a cult, but it's a pen-pal club compared with Amiga's
following. Despite having endured three long years without a major hardware
upgrade, Amiga users worldwide have clung to their machines, gathering in
user groups to keep the platform alive and churning out applications and
emulators to keep up with the times.

"It [Amiga] has never been totally orphaned. The user base is incredibly
loyal," said Harv Laser, who runs the Amiga Zone special-interest group (SIG)
on Internet-service provider Portal Information Network. "I don't know what
it is-some kind of spirit, or some kind of drug they painted on the
keyboard."

David Haynie, who helped design Amiga hardware at Commodore and who now works
for Scala Inc., said he knows what it is:"After you use it for a while, you
start to like it. You start to get it."

At long last, the faithful may be rewarded for their patience. And the tiny
but tenacious market appears more than ready for a new Amiga.

"I'd be down at the store before they opened, waiting in line to get one,"
Laser said.

Tricky counting

Measuring the Amiga community is tricky. Laser estimated that more than 5
million Amigas were sold, but the user base is smaller than that, given Amiga
owners' penchant for stockpiling multiple machines. And, of course, many
Amigas are collecting dust in attics.

Though the hardware is aging, new software keeps appearing, thanks to Amiga's
steadfast following overseas. "A lot of software, especially games, is coming
from Europe these days," said Randy Abel, who heads a user group called The
Other Group of Amigoids (TOGA) in Silicon Valley.

By Laser's estimates, well more than 5,000 commercial software packages have
been released in the past 10 years. Shareware represents a vast chunk of the
Amiga repertoire. Enthusiast Fred Fish has compiled thousands of programs
that Amiga users have shared for years, and a Web site called Aminet carries
thousands more. Laser's SIG alone has 12,000 programs divided into 40
libraries.

"I don't think it would be wrong to say there are 40,000 to 50,000 Amiga
programs out there," Laser said.

Amiga's most famous software package, NewTek's Video Toaster, is still used
to edit television shows, including the various flavors of Star Trek.

The platform has also kept pace with the on-line revolution. At least six Web
browsers exist for it, and a grass-roots effort is working to port Sun
Microsystems Inc.'s HotJava. The Amiga Web directory, run from the University
of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, links to hundreds of sites for developers,
shareware peddlers and hardware manufacturers.

Yet the venerable platform is not immune to market realities. Users are
defecting to the Macintosh and even the PC as Amiga shows its age. And no
corporate market exists for the machines, since, as Haynie observed, "it's
hard to have a company running on computers that may or may not be
manufactured."

One reason the aged platform has endured so long is simply that Commodore's
failures forced Amiga users to unite. "They gave us nothing, so we had to do
it all ourselves," said Niall Teasdale, a British Amiga user who is
coordinating the HotJava porting project.

User groups have sprung up worldwide. Usenet newsgroups have arisen to focus
on Amigas and networking, Amigas and graphics, Amigas and video games-and the
discussions are rife with rants against the computer industry's
establishment.

"We're all a part of something really different," said Jason Compton, editor
of on-line publication Amiga Report Magazine. "Using computers for fun's sake
has largely been sacrificed in the face of faster, cheaper, more polygons,
more video."

But the attachment is grounded in the technical as well as the emotional.
Amiga users contend their machines excel at tasks that bedevil more popular
platforms.

First off, as Laser noted, Amiga "was built from day one to multitask. That's
what makes it unique among desktops that a human being can afford."

"A friend of mine bought one of the early Amiga 1000s," Abel recalled. "It
could multitask in 256k [of RAM], which still no other computer can do."

Then there's the architecture and the operating system. Amiga's OS is a
text-based DOS that consumes less than 1 Mbyte of disk space, atop of which
runs a graphical user interface called Workbench.

"The main reason I've stuck with the machine is the operating system,"
Teasdale said. "The Amiga OS is a beautiful thing, with many of the features
of a professional operating system. Until Windows NT, Microsoft had nothing
to touch it."

Amiga also runs quickly:Its microprocessor is supported by a host of
proprietary chips, including a disk-drive controller and a port controller.
"They took all the load off the main CPU. This is what the other machines
didn't have," Laser said.

Perhaps most important, Amiga was built as a multimedia machine. Its creators
had sound and video applications in mind, so they gave the platform extremely
high standards that some PCs still don't match. Stereo sound has been a
feature since 1985, for example.

Indeed, that's the feature that turned the heads of the set-top designers at
VIScorp, whose staff is largely composed of people who had previously worked
on Amiga technology. Yet VIScorp's fascination with the set-top box has
sounded an alarm among the platform's faithful. Although the community is
rooting for VIScorp, discussions on the dozens of Amiga-centric newsgroups
reveal skepticism about its plans.

"We're just crossing our fingers," Abel said, though he added that "[the
news] we hear on the Net sounds good."

Once bitten . . .

Forgive Amiga users their trepidation:They've been burned before.

In 1982, a team that included Jay Miner and David Morse launched Amiga as a
videogame box to rival Atari. Miner and Morse's Amiga Inc. was founded in Los
Gatos soon after and was bought by Commodore around 1984.

Things went south from there. Amiga fans are merciless in their criticism of
Commodore, which ran their computer into oblivion, they said. "Developing on
the Amiga has never been easy. Commodore was not the best host," Teasdale
said.

Laser ticked off what he considers the company's faults:"ineptitude, lack of
marketing, lack of R&D money." He said the company killed the popular and
inexpensive Amiga 500, did nothing to exploit the Christmas market, and hired
ad agencies "who had no idea what this thing could do."

Commodore declared bankruptcy in 1994, and Escom AG beat out Atari in the
ensuing bidding war. The Amiga community was abuzz with the possibility of
reviving its favorite machine, but the thrill didn't last long.

"A year ago, we were waiting to see all the new machines from Germany. That
went bust," Abel said.

Amiga Technologies GmbH, the subsidiary created by Escom, failed to upgrade
the platform, which dealt a blow to users who were hoping for a 68060-powered
Amiga. It's now believed that Escom was more interested in Commodore's name
recognition than in Amiga's fate.

"Escom was always about halfheartedly promoting the Amiga," Haynie said. "The
word on the street was that they were willing to spend $12 million just on
the Commodore name, which is still very big in Europe-and they paid $15
million."

Awash in financial troubles of its own, Escom went bankrupt in July 1995 with
liabilities exceeding $250 million. VIScorp made its move, having already
started talks to purchase Amiga.

Publicly held VIScorp hadn't planned on getting into the computer business,
but it appeared to be the only way to preserve its Amiga-based plans. "We had
to go back to our investors," VIScorp chief executive William Buck told EE
Times. "We had to convince them of a whole new plan."

The process was complicated. In a Web-published letter to the Amiga
community, Buck explained that Escom had more than 11 creditors claiming to
own Amiga. And Amiga's intellectual property had been "poorly organized"
under Commodore, heaping on an extra dollop of legal molasses.

VIScorp is keeping in touch with the Amiga community, having hired Amiga
Report Magazine's Compton as its liaison. At an Amiga users' convention in
Montreal Aug. 3, officials said the company hopes to construct new Amigas
using an as-yet unspecified RISC processor.

In the short term, VIScorp plans to release a 68060 upgrade board and will
maintain Amiga Technologies GmbH, the subsidiary created by Escom.

As good as it all sounds, VIScorp's plans might throw cold water on a couple
of German efforts to resurrect Amiga.

PowerPC port

Pios Computer AG and Phase 5 Digital Products each are working to port Amiga
to the PowerPC. VIScorp has said it is willing to work with both companies;
but at the Montreal convention, company officials made it clear that they
won't tolerate renegade versions of Amiga floating around the market.

Pios was created in May "kind of from the ashes of Amiga Technologies,"
Haynie said, when former Amiga Technologies executive Stefan Dormeyer grew
impatient with Escom's efforts. Pios quickly has attracted key Amiga
players-including Haynie and Amiga-software guru Andy Finkel-to its camp to
help with its plans.

Pios can't win the microprocessor wars, so it plans to field a low-cost
package that leans heavily on graphics and multimedia and handles both better
than mainstream software does today. That would make its architecture
attractive for game play or Web connections-not unlike the much-hyped $500
Internet appliances.

"We may end up in competition with the machines trying to kill the PC,"
Haynie said.

Enthusiasm for the PowerPC port may be cooling, however. IBM's apparent lack
of enthusiasm and the struggles of Apple Computer Inc. are making the chip a
less-attractive option, Compton said. VIScorp and Compton won't address any
alternatives, but a rumor on the Net claims that porting Amiga OS to the
Alpha chip from Digital Equipment Corp. is a possibility.

Any Amiga revival is going to take good marketing and a push to create a
corporate market, Haynie said. "The situation is not good for any commercial
[market]. That's one thing we need to change rather quickly."

Whatever the fate of the latest moves, Amiga's devoted fans will continue to
support one another, with chins up.

"I remain optimistic and always will, as long as there are Amigas," Laser
said. Control of the technology "is back in the U.S.A., with ex-Amiga people
owning it. Maybe this is the best thing."

Copyright * 1996 CMP Media Inc.

[Next Article] [Return to Article List] [Link to Article] [New Search]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Image]
