From: jcompton@flood.xnet.com (Jason Compton)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Where Things Stand 8/20
Date: 20 Aug 1996 15:33:41 GMT
Organization: XNet - A Full Service Internet Provider - (708) 983-6064
Lines: 56
Message-ID: <4vclsl$mlk@flood.xnet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: monsoon.xnet.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Hi, guys and gals.

As you've all no doubt noticed, August 19th has been and gone and there 
was no fireworks display.  Later today there will be an official 
notification of a 30-day extension granted by the Escom trustee to 
VIScorp for the Amiga acquisition.

What else is news?  Well, many of you have heard by now of the Amiga 
luggable I was showing in Atlanta and later in the Chicago suburbs.  
Here's a mini-FAQ.

No, it is NOT the Silent Paw A4000 portable design.

It WILL BE a new motherboard design done by QuikPak.  The capabilities of 
the machine will be A4000-ish, with either an 040 or 060, up to 128 megs 
of RAM on the motherboard, with Zorro slots and a video slot or two.  I 
don't have the specs on what I/O it will have internally or externally yet.

What I showed was an OEM case built by Prism, which is what QuikPak has 
selected as the case and LCD for the machine.  It's smoke-black, so it 
won't match the Amiga beige equipment on your desk now. :)

It does NOT take batteries, it is AC powered only by a standard PC power 
supply.

QuikPak is imagining that the machine will be popular as a Toaster/Flyer 
portable editing station.

I am currently working on ways to make A1200s and A4000Ts more attractive 
for sale in the interim.  I don't know what the engineering realities of 
a new stopgap machine will be, but in the meantime I am trying to put 
together a good deal for everyone.

Graphic artists, please read my next post.  VIScorp needs your help to 
herald in the Amiga's arrival at the company.

Guys, I know it's tough.  But we ARE trying and we ARE working as fast as 
possible to get things up and running.  Visible evidence is scant, I 
know.  "Faith" is a tough word to invoke when it comes to the Amiga, so 
I'll just ask you to persevere.  We are, all of us, part of something 
unique.  Something that the rest of the computing world has forsaken.  We 
are a true Community, and I capitalize it on purpose.

Each of us contributes something to the whole, whether it's the
tangibility of a new Aminet release or the intangibility of simply
grimacing at a flashing guru.

Don't let them win.  You know what we're up against, and it's more than 
just the legacy of Commodore's mistakes and Escom's inaction.  We are 
trying to do our part, to keep everyone together.  Please, persevere.  
I'm not here pissing away money just to ruin your day.  I'm trying to 
ensure that the Amiga's place in the present and future is secure.

--
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Communications Manager, VIScorp
