From: jcompton@flood.xnet.com (Jason Compton)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: PIOS and VIScorp: Unofficial, but...
Date: 2 Sep 1996 15:39:47 GMT
Organization: XNet - A Full Service Internet Provider - (708) 983-6064
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <50ev43$k9q@flood.xnet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: monsoon.xnet.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

All right, I've been trying to handle this as delicately as I can, but I 
guess it's going to take a sledgehammer approach.

While this is not an official, management-signed statement, it IS the 
VIScorp policy on PIOS as I have obtained it from our high-ranking officers.

Here goes.

1.  VIScorp, particularly Director of Engineering Don Gilbreath, would 
like to apologize to PIOS for the perceived abruptness in the lack of 
communication lately.  It was not an intentional slight.  By extension, I 
would like to apologize to the Amiga community for all the lost sleep and 
Amiga angst this whole PIOS message has caused.

2.  VIScorp's policy on future Amiga tech direction is that it is not 
interested in an exclusive or near-exclusive license on Amiga desktop 
computer technology.

3.  VIScorp's perception is that PIOS' proposal involved an exclusive or 
near-exclusive license on Amiga desktop computer technology.  If this 
perception is incorrect, or the PIOS plans have changed, we would very 
much like to re-entertain the proposal.

4.  VIScorp IS interested in non-exclusive licenses and contracts and 
subcontracts, etc., on the Amiga desktop computer technology.  It's just 
that we really do want to be involved in this business, and to preside 
over the future of the machine.

5.  Despite how easy it may appear, it IS difficult to negotiate on the 
future of the machine without owning it.  In order to make promises to 
developers and potential contractors, we need certain commitments and 
terms from chip manufacturers.  In order to obtain these commitments, we 
need the technology in hand.

--
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Communications Manager - Amiga, VIScorp        http://www.vistv.com/
I know what I like.                            And I like what I know.
