Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Hmmm, where to start... (9/14)
Date: 14 Sep 1996 22:09:25 GMT
Organization: XNet - A Full Service Internet Provider - (708) 983-6064
Lines: 55
Message-ID: <51fael$4ov@flood.xnet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cyclone.xnet.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Let's see.  I've only got 650 more messages in this newsgroup alone to 
read and I'm on a lousy connection.  Perhaps I should just stop in and 

mention a few things while I have the chance.

For those that are interested, Vancouver was rainy and fun.

I've submitted a short-list of upcoming Amiga or Amiga-related shows 
(like Computer '96 in Cologne) to VIScorp, so we should be popping up at 
an Amiga show near you soon.  We can't be out in full force at each show 
in the early days, and for the non-Amiga shows we can't go to everything. 
(just about every weekend there will be a computer expo SOMEWHERE.)  
Currently, the plan is to push hard at the North American "Big Two" (CES 
and COMDEX), coinciding with the UITI launch at the January CES in Las Vegas.

Before you worry about Amiga Christmas sales, I'll just point out that 
there are A1200s and A4000Ts available in case you want to try to fit one 
in a stocking.  No, there will not be any set-top stocking stuffers this 
year.

It's the 14th, and every indication from the company tells me that yes, 
the deal will be complete for the 20th.  Aside from the fact that every 
day I ask and every day I'm told "Yes, Jason, the deal will be complete 
for the 20th", I've also seen the box that came back from the printers 
that has a set of VIScorp business cards ready for Petro.

PIOS and Phase5: PIOS has invited VIScorp back for more confidential 
talks.  Phase5 and VIScorp are continuing to discuss the future, and I'm 
looking forward at a chance to examine and show the PowerUP card to 
VIScorp.  However, Phase5 has opted not to sign an NDA with us until we 
complete the purchase--which is entirely within their rights.

Future Amiga Goodies: Well, if you're really itchy for work on the Amiga, 
the new OS Beta patches and fixes from AT might hold you over.  On 
ftp.amiga.de you'll find a new SetPatch, a 2/4-gig HD limit eliminator, 
and a few other improvements courtesy of AT and Heinz Wrobel.  So far the 
new SetPatch hasn't done anything averse to me but MultiCX users will 
find that it breaks the "about requester" improvements.

More Future Amiga Goodies: Beyond the OS patches, of course there will 
need to be more.  We've got a hardware proposal coming into the office on 
Tuesday.  There is at least one OS proposal from a new venture on the 
table.  And I've even made a few inquiries to find ways to promote the 
Amiga with other products in the same boat we're in--choosing to be 
different.

Just remember: patience is a virtue, and getting yourself stressed out to 
the point you lose your hair is unpleasant.  Take my word for it.

--
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Communications Manager - Amiga, VIScorp        http://www.vistv.com/
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine         (847) 741-0689 FAX
I know what I like.                            And I like what I know.
AR on Aminet - docs/mags/ar???.lha             AR Mailing list - Mail me
WWW - http://www.omnipresence.com/Amiga/News/AR, www.cucug.org/ar/ar.html
