
                       World Construction Set
         Is your Virtual Reality more Virtual than Reality?


   Questar Productions is proud to announce our flagship product,
World Construction Set (WCS), the next generation of computer
terrain modeling software. WCS' powerful renderer sets new standards
in photo-realism, producing images that are often mistaken for
actual photographs. Our ecosystem modeling approach combines
familiar 3D imaging techniques with Nature's own processes to
deliver scenes of sublime beauty and lifelike detail to your Amiga.
The days of orchard-like forests and pipe-cleaner trees are gone
forever!

   WCS shatters the perception that terrain renderers must be
limited to small geographic areas and sparse detail. At the heart of
our system is a sophisticated GIS (Geographic Information System)
database, using real-world coordinates and allowing for an unlimited
number of objects. The flexibility of this design enables accurate
depiction of landscapes and vector information at any scale.
On-demand object loading in the render process permits great numbers
of high-resolution data sets to be utilized without utilizing great
amounts of memory. For example, rendering the entire state of
Colorado in 90-meter square samples results in a mind-boggling 80
million polygons, and can be done using only 8Mb of RAM! Since WCS
perceives every landscape as a portion of the entire globe, horizon
curvature is automatically accounted for. High-resolution DEM sets
covering the entire United States and lower-resolution global data
sets are available from the USGS and Questar Productions. One could
even animate a continuous pull-back from viewing a single meadow to
soaring over the entire planet.

   WCS can also present information about a variety of natural and
man-made features using vector objects. (Vector objects are entities
composed of straight line segments or points, and are used to depict
streams, roads, political boundaries, coastlines, buildings, etc.)
These objects can be imported from many sources or digitized and
edited in our 2D or 3D perspective view windows. Unlimited layer
support eases grouping of vectors by type, location or any
user-defined attribute. Line weights and colors are
user-configurable, along with luminosity and other special effects
(crawling ants). WCS' 2D map module is powerful enough to stand
alone as a separate application. In combination with WCS' other
modules, the power cannot be contained!

   We do not have the space to describe in detail the extensive
features available for video and print media output and scientific
analysis. A brief list of other capabilities follows, Please feel
free to contact us at Questar if you have any further questions,
since our product is driven by user feedback and ideas.


General Program Features:
   Task-oriented non-modal user-interface
   Load/Save configurable workspace and user preferences
   Flexible object, image and data file paths
   Uses Magic User Interface -- Amiga User Interface StyleGuide
    compliant
   Provides public screen on user-specified ScreenMode
   Enhanced display board (with Intuition emulation) compatibility
   68000, 68020/68030 and 68040 optimized versions
   Compatible with all Amiga models running OS2.04 or later
   Multimedia, multidimensional and buzzword-compliant!
   Heaps O' Fun to Use!

Import / Export Features:
   IO LightWave motion files
   I  U.S. Geological Survey Digital Line Graphs (USGS DLG)
   I  World Data Bank global vector data
   I  AutoCAD DXF vectors (LINE, POLYLINE, POINT primitives)
   I  USGS 3 arc second ASCII Digital Elevation Models (DEM)
   IO WCS Binary DEM
   IO Future support for Vista binary DEMs
   IO IFF and Sculpt image formats
   IO IFF-ZBUF and raw array Z-Buffer data
   IO Convert between any 2D binary data array and an image/DEM

Mapping Features:
   Extensively configurable algorithmic ecosystem mapping
   Animatable planar color and ecosystem mapping
   Multigradient hypsometric shaded relief mapping
   Multiple ecosystem types: Water, Bare, Rock, Grass, Conifer,
    Deciduous
   Visual sensitivity (ViewShed) analysis and display
   2D/3D vector digitization, editing and mapping/rendering
   Summagraphics tablet support (future generic tablet support)
   2D plan view (overhead) map display by contour or shaded relief

Animation Features:
   Automatic turn banking and lookahead options
   Spline control of all motion, color and ecosystem parameters
   Individual Tension, Continuity and Bias for each spline channel
   Interactive 3D wireframe layout display
   Multiple 3D preview rendering methods
   Batch render preview animation frames to files for external
    playback
   Real-time internal preview of motion (bounding-box) and color
   Timeline (motion graph) editing of all splined parameters

Rendering Features:
   24 bit output with 4 bit (16-color) progress display
   Field Rendering for 60fps video output
   Any aspect and resolution up to 32767 x 32767 (memory permitting)
   Segmented rendering option reduces memory requirements
   Automatic super-sampled pixel antialiasing
   User-definable fractal recursion level
   Detailed 2D trees for realistic vegetation density within
    realistic rendering time-frames
   Curvilinear horizon gradient or animated bitmap image backgrounds
   Supports Z-Buffered background compositing (IFF-ZBUF, Raw array)




   World Construction Set version 1.0 is available immediately, and
ships with the program, extensive sample data sets, and a
preliminary manual. All registered v1.0 purchasers will receive a
free update to v1.1 including any bug fixes, additional features and
final printed manual. World Construction Set v1.0 has a suggested
retail price of $250 and is available direct from Questar
Productions. Be the first on your block to own the newest and
coolest terrain renderer for the Amiga -- through October 30th, 1994
WCS is available direct for only $195 (includes ground freight).


Questar Productions
1058 WCR 231/2
Brighton, CO 80601
(303) 659-4028
wcsinfo@arcticus.burner.com

(All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners)

