¡The Cage [TOS #1]
1965064*o*Data/STOS/cage.iff
Stardate Unknown

Ten years before James T. Kirk takes command of the U.S.S. Enterprise, Captain
Christopher Pike and his starship crew receive a distress signal from the
planet Talos IV and beam down to investigate. Tracking the beacon, the landing
party discovers crash survivors from a missing scientific expedition; among
the survivors is a beautiful human female, Vina. Pike is concerned for the
woman's safety, yet allows himself to become distracted by her beauty and is
subsequently captured by the Talosians who live beneath the planet's surface.
The distress signal and expedition survivors, except for Vina, are revealed to
be but illusions created by the Talosians to lure the Enterprise and Pike to
the planet.

The Talosians are a strong race, yet after decades of illusory indulgence,
they have physically atrophied and need sturdy beings to rebuild and
repopulate their barren planet. In Pike, with Vina, the Talosians hope they
have finally found the one being who can serve as their breeding stock for a
healthier and even more powerful race.

The Talosians use their power of illusion to interest Pike in Vina, presenting
her in various disguises: a Rigellian princess in distress, a green Orion
animal woman, and a loving, compassionate companion. When Pike resists, the
Talosians lure Pike's female first officer and yeoman from the Enterprise to
offer further temptation. By then, however, Pike has discovered that primitive
human emotions neutralize the Talosians' ability to read minds, and he
eventually escapes to the surface of the planet along with his fellow
prisoners.

The Talosians confront Pike and the three prisoners before they can beam up,
but the captain refuses to negotiate, threatening to kill himself and the
others rather than submit to the Talosians' demands. Frightened at losing
their only source of repopulation, the Talosians inspect the U.S.S.
Enterprise's records and discover that the human race is far too independent
to be of adequate service to them.

Faced with no other choice, the Talosians release the humans. After the first
officer and yeoman beam up, Pike remains behind with Vina, urging her to leave
with him. Despite her growing attraction to the captain, Vina is unable to
leave the planet. It is revealed that an expedition had indeed crash landed on
Talos IV. Vina, the only survivor, was greatly injured and disfigured. With
the aid of the Talosians' illusions, however, she is able to appear beautiful
and feel healthy.

The Talosians pledge to continue to provide Vina with the appearance of health
and beauty while allowing her to roam the planet free of intervention.
Realizing that she will be in good hands after all, Pike returns to the U.S.S.
Enterprise. The Talosians, in an act of good will, send the captain an image
of Vina on the starship's viewscreen. Not only is she beautiful again, aided
by the Talosians' illusory powers, but by her side is another illusion - that
of the handsome Christopher Pike.

Crew : Jeffrey Hunter  (Capt. Christopher Pike)
       John Hoyt       (Dr. Phillip Boyce)
       Laurel Goodwin  (Yeoman J.M. Colt)
       Leonard Nimoy   (Mr. Spock)
       M. Leigh Hudec  (Number One)
       Peter Duryea    (Navigator Jose Tyler)

Cast : Adam Roarke     (Chief Petty Officer Garrison)
       Clegg Hoyt      (Transporter Chief Pitcairn)
       Jon Lormer      (Dr. Theodore Haskins)
       Malachi Throne  (Voice Of The Keeper)
       Meg Wyllie      (The Keeper)
       Susan Oliver    (Vina)

Written By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Robert Butler
¡Where No Man Has Gone Before [TOS #2]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/wherenoman.iff
Stardate 1312.4

Some years before this second pilot, the S.S. Valiant had encountered a
unknown energy barrier at the rim of the galaxy. Something had then made its
captain destroy his ship.

The U.S.S. Enterprise finds the Valiant's disaster record-marker, which
reveals that just prior to its destruction the crew had been searching library
tapes for any information on psionics.

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives at the edge of the galaxy and the same force
affects the ship's drives that must have affected those of the Valiant. Kirk
notices a strong personality change in his good friend, Lt. Gary Mitchell,
whose latent psionic abilities are heightened by the force field. Soon
Mitchell has gained enormous extrasensory powers, displaying many talents
which include moving objects with his mind and controlling his own heart rate.
To a smaller degree, Dr. Elizabeth Dehner is also affected by the force
field's power and the two are drawn together by their common powers.

As Mitchell's powers grow, he becomes more dangerous. Spock believes that when
the Valiant experienced the same phenomena, it destroyed itself to prevent the
power from taking over the galaxy. Gary Mitchell confirms his fears when he
informs them that he is becoming a god who will rule the humans. Spock feels
that Mitchell's death is the only solution, but Kirk is unable to kill his old
friend. Instead, he exiles him to an uninhabited planet. However, once on the
planet's surface, Mitchell kills his guard and escapes, taking Dr. Dehner with
him. Kirk follows with a phaser rifle and Mitchell attempts to kill Kirk with
his psionic powers.

Witnessing this display, Dr. Dehner realizes how inhuman and dangerous
Mitchell has become and tries to help Kirk defeat him. Without remorse,
Mitchell kills Elizabeth Dehner. Before he can refocus his psi powers, Kirk
creates a rockslide that entombs Mitchell, killing him.

Afterwards, Spock admits to Kirk that for the first time in his life, he felt
something akin to human emotion.

Crew : George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Andrea Dromm     (Yeoman Smith)
       Eddie Paskey     (Mr. Leslie)
       Gary Lockwood    (Lt. Cmdr. Gary Mitchell)
       Lloyd Haynes     (Lt. Alden)
       Paul Carr        (Lt. Lee Kelso)
       Paul Fix         (Dr. Mark Piper)
       Sally Kellerman  (Dr. Elizabeth Dehner)

Written By : Samuel A. Peeples

Directed By : James Goldstone
¡The Corbomite Maneuver [TOS #3]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/corbomite.iff
Stardate 1512.2

While exploring an uncharted region of space, the U.S.S. Enterprise comes upon
an alien space buoy which is cube-shaped and spins, warning ships away and
blocking the starship's path. Kirk's orders the phasers to destroy the buoy
but immediately an alien's ship, the I.S.S. Fesarius, shaped like a large,
glowing crystal traps the starship.

A ghostly, almost skeletal face appears on the viewscreen, identifying itself
as Balok. He tells Kirk that the U.S.S. Enterprise has trespassed and
committed hostile actions, and therefore, must be destroyed. Employing a trick
from the Earth game, poker, Kirk tries a desperate bluff by convincing Balok
that if the U.S.S. Enterprise is fired upon, the corbomite in the starship's
hull will self-destruct and destroy both ships.

Believing Kirk, the Fesarius instead takes the starship in tow, but Kirk
wrenches his ship away so suddenly and with such force that Balok's ship is
apparently disabled. When the Fesarius transmits a distress call, Kirk, McCoy
and Lt. Dave Bailey, still nervous about the bluff played against the powerful
alien, beam aboard the Fesarius.

They find that the Fesarius is manned by only one entity, a friendly,
child-like being who projects the 'Balok' image to potential enemies, knowing
his own stature would be far less daunting. The image of the deep, booming
voice of Balok coming from the small child, is very eerie. They also find that
Balok's ship has not been damaged, but that the alien was merely testing the
U.S.S. Enterprise crew to see if they were as peaceful as they claimed to be.
A kind of diplomatic relationship is formed over drinks of tranya, and Lt.
Bailey offers to remain with Balok as a sort of exchange student to learn the
alien's ways and teach him about the Federation.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Anthony Hall       (Lt. David Bailey)
       Bruce Mars         (Crewman)
       Clint Howard       (Balok)
       Ena Hartman        (Crewwoman)
       George Bochman     (Crewman)
       Gloria Calomee     (Crewwoman)
       Grace Lee Whitney  (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       John Gabriel       (Crewman)
       Jonathan Lippe     (Crewman)
       Mittie Lawrence    (Crewwoman)
       Stewart Moss       (Crewman)
       Ted Cassidy        (Voice Of The Puppet)
       Vic Perrin         (Voice Of Balok)

Written By : Jerry Sohl

Directed By : Joseph Sargent
¡Mudd's Women [TOS #4]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/muddswomen.iff
Stardate 1329.8

The U.S.S. Enterprise pursues an unknown ship into an asteroid belt to save
its crew before it's destroyed. The four people aboard are beamed on to the
U.S.S. Enterprise; former nemesis, Harry Mudd and three beautiful, sultry
women: Ruth Bonaventure, Eve McHuron and Magda Kovas. Mudd was transporting
the three women to Ophiuchus VI to marry settlers there.

The U.S.S. Enterprise computers reveal that Mudd has been charged with a
number of infractions of the law. In pursuit of Mudd's ship, the U.S.S.
Enterprise has burned out it's dilithium crystals, which power the starship's
engines, and Kirk orders them to proceed as quickly as possible to the nearest
dilithium mining planet. That planet is Rigel XII, which is inhabited by only
three miners.

Mudd manages to contact Ben Childress, the head miner, and make a deal with
him. Mudd promises to deliver the three beautiful women to the lonely miners
in exchange for dilithium crystals and their help in escaping Kirk.

Upon reaching the planet, Eve tries to escape, having fallen for Kirk and not
wanting to marry one of the miners, but Ben Childress brings her back. They
discover that the women are using an extremely illegal Venus drug to make them
beautiful and without they become quite plain. By the time the fraud is
discovered, Magda and Ruth are already married to the miners, to the
satisfaction of all parties involved. Eve, who realizes that Kirk is married
to his career and to his starship, settles for marrying Ben. Kirk gets the
crystals he needs for the U.S.S. Enterprise and Harry Mudd, on whom he has
filed criminal charges.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Eddie Paskey     (Conners)
       Frank da Vinci   (Security Guard)
       Gene Dynarski    (Ben Childress)
       Jerry Foxworth   (Security Guard)
       Jim Goodwin      (Lt. John Farrell)
       Jon Kowal        (Herm Gossett)
       Karen Steele     (Eve McHuron)
       Maggie Thrett    (Ruth Bonaventure)
       Majel Barrett    (Computer Voice)
       Roger C. Carmel  (Harcourt Fenton Mudd)
       Seamon Glass     (Benton)
       Susan Denberg    (Magda Kovas)

Teleplay By : Stephen Kandel

Story By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Harvey Hart
¡The Enemy Within [TOS #5]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/enemywithin.iff
Stardate 1672.1

While orbiting the planet Alpha 177, the U.S.S. Enterprise experiences a
transporter malfunction when Technician Fischer is beamed up from the planet
with some magnetic ore on his clothing. Scotty checks the transporter and
finds nothing wrong, so Captain Kirk beams aboard. Kirk leaves with his
officers and when the transporter room is deserted, a second Kirk materializes
on the pad.

When a space animal is beamed aboard the starship and splits into two
entities; one tame and one vicious, it is discovered that the same thing has
happened to Kirk. While one Kirk is good and honorable, the other is evil and
runs amok on his ship, committing violent acts, including the attempted
assault of Yeoman Janice Rand.

Meanwhile, the transporter continued to split objects into two entities, thus
forcing the remainder of the ship's landing party to remain on the planet's
surface. Alpha 177's approaching night promises certain death from exposure
and freezing temperatures to the unprotected landing party.

As time passes, the "good" Kirk is weakening, losing his ability to make
decisions, while his "evil" half is dying. Neither Kirk can survive without
his other half. Time is running out, not only for Captain Kirk, but for the
landing party on the planet's surface.

Scotty effects repairs on the transporter, but there's no time to test it.
McCoy is fearful because the "space dog" which had been split earlier, had
gone through the repaired transporter and, while joined into one animal, was
dead. Kirk takes the chance and beams down with his counterpart and returns to
the U.S.S. Enterprise whole and alive. Quickly the landing party is beamed
aboard, worse for the cold, but alive.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Eddie Paskey       (Conners)
       Edward Madden      (Geological Technician Fisher)
       Garland Thompson   (Transporter Technician Wilson)
       Grace Lee Whitney  (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       Jim Goodwin        (Lt. John Farrell)

Written By : Richard Matheson

Directed By : Leo Penn
¡The Man Trap [TOS #6]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/mantrap.iff
Stardate 1513.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives at planet M-113 to deliver supplies to Dr.
Robert Crater and his wife, Nancy, whom Doctor Leonard McCoy was once
romantically involved with. The Craters have been on M-113 for five years
conducting an archeological survey of the planet's ruins. They are the only
known inhabitants of the planet.

Crater tells Kirk that the only thing they need are salt tablets. Otherwise,
they want to be left alone. Kirk debates this, insisting they must need other
supplies and must at least allow McCoy to give them physicals. While this is
happening, Darnell, one of Kirk's landing party, meets a beautiful young woman
and wanders off with her.

When Kirk goes looking for the young man, he finds him dead, his body scarred
with suction cup shaped marks. The Captain orders the Craters to beam aboard
the U.S.S. Enterprise. On ship, Dr. McCoy is amazed at how little Nancy has
changed since he last saw her, several years earlier. Her close proximity on
board the starship begins to reawaken old feelings for the doctor that
somewhat shadow any suspicions of her that he might normally have had.

However, the woman McCoy sees as Nancy Crater is a shape-shifting creature,
the last survivor of M-113, and can literally appear as a different being to
each person 'she' meets. By reaching into their minds and drawing on their
memories, the creature can lull her potential victims into a false sense of
security before she kills them.

The problem facing M-113 is the need for sodium chloride... salt. Without it,
the creature will die and its home planet is running out. The rest of its race
died due to this shortage, and this final survivor formed a symbiotic
relationship with Professor Crater. Crater provided M-113 with the needed salt
and the creature in turn gave the professor companionship... something he had
craved since the salt creature murdered his wife, the real Nancy Crater, for
her body's salt.

Let loose on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, M-113 begins killing members of the
crew, first luring them by posing as someone they know and trust, then
draining their bodies of their precious salt. Finally M-113 kills Crater and
changes into Nancy Crater, nearly killing McCoy. Kirk and Spock, who have
figured out the creature's secret, rush to the doctor's quarters and convince
him that this is not the real Nancy. In an emotionally painful move, McCoy
kills the creature, saving himself and the U.S.S. Enterprise crew.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Alfred Ryder       (Professor Robert Crater)
       Bob Baker          (Beauregard Puppeteer)
       Bruce Watson       (Crewman Green)
       Francine Pyne      (Blonde Nancy Crater)
       Garrison True      (Crewman Guard #1)
       Grace Lee Whitney  (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       Jeanne Bal         (Nancy Crater)
       Larry Anthony      (Transporter Chief)
       Michael Zaslow     (Crewman Darnell)
       Sharon Gimpel      (M113 Salt Creature)
       Vince Howard       (Uhura's Crewman)

Written By : George Clayton Johnson

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Naked Time [TOS #7]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/nakedtime.iff
Stardate 1704.2

Spock and Joe Tormolen beam down to planet Psi 2000 to pick up a research
party before the planet disintegrates. They find everyone has died, frozen
when life support was turned off. Even stranger, the positions of the
researcher's bodies show they were out of their minds when they died and some
died by suicide.

Unknowingly, Tormolen carried what is later termed the "Psi 2000" virus, back
to the U.S.S. Enterprise and it spreads among the crew at an alarming rate,
reaching into their souls and pulling out their deepest desires for public
display. The virus is water borne and spread by perspiration in a touch. While
trying to stop Tormolen from killing himself, Sulu and Kevin Riley are
infected with the virus.

The crew begin displaying actions that are humorous exaggerations of their
desires, like Sulu threatening the bridge with a fencing foil and Kirk
becoming overly romantic toward the crew. Others are more heart-wrenching,
like Christine Chapel admitting her love for Spock and the Vulcan finally
weeping over his mother's death. The deadliest result, however, is when Riley
declares himself captain of the U.S.S. Enterprise and locks himself in
Engineering. Unfortunately, he also locks everyone else out. Once in command
of the ship's engines, Riley shuts them down and the U.S.S. Enterprise is
pulled toward Psi 2000's by its erratic gravity.

McCoy finds an antidote for the virus which he, fortunately, manages to avoid
coming down with, and infects the crew.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bruce Hyde         (Lt. Kevin Riley)
       Bud Da Vinci       (Crewman)
       Christin Ducheau   (Crewman)
       Eddie Paskey       (Lt. Ryan)
       Frank da Vinci     (Lt. Brent)
       Grace Lee Whitney  (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       John Bellah        (Laughing Crewman)
       Majel Barrett      (Christine Chapel)
       Stewart Moss       (Joe Tormolen)
       William Knight     (Amorous Crewman)
       Woody Talbert      (Crewman)

Written By : John D.F. Black

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Charlie X [TOS #8]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/charliex.iff
Stardate 1533.6

As Charles Evans, the lone survivor of a crashed colonizing expedition to the
planet Thasus, comes aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise from the S.S. Antares, but
when Captain Ramart of the Antares contacts Kirk about Charlie, the S. S.
Antares is suddenly destroyed.

Charlie shows not only a lack of grief for the people who had become his
benefactors, but almost an indifference to their deaths. He seems only
concerned that his new "family" like and accept him. Unfortunately, teenage
hormones and an isolated upbringing make that difficult.

Strange events occur whenever Charlie is angered - he makes Yeoman Rand
disappear when she rebuffs his advances, he breaks Spock's legs when the
Vulcan tries to discipline him, and he causes injury and discomfort to anyone
who he thinks is laughing at him.

Charlie demands that the U.S.S. Enterprise take him to the nearest inhabited
planet, but Kirk fears that his uncontrolled temper and dangerous powers will
create havoc for any civilization. Charlie gains control of the ship, but Kirk
shortly overcomes him. Suddenly, an alien face appears on the bridge. It is
that of a Thasian, the race who raised Charlie and gave him his extremely
powerful psionic powers.

The Thasians had realized that Charlie has left their planet and thus sent
their own starship to intercept the Enterprise. Despite Charlie's tearful
pleas to remain, the Thasians take the lonely child back to Thasus. Before
they depart, the beings restore the U.S.S. Enterprise and her crew to normal.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Abraham Sofaer      (The Thasian)
       Beau Vandenecker    (Sam)
       Charles J. Stewart  (Capt. Ramart)
       Dallas Mitchell     (Tom Nellis)
       Don Eitner          (Navigator)
       Frank da Vinci      (Security Guard)
       Garland Thompson    (Crewman #2)
       Gene Roddenberry    (Voice Of Galley Chef)
       Grace Lee Whitney   (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       John Bellah         (Crewman #1)
       John Lindesmith     (Helmsman)
       Laura Wood          (Old Lady)
       Patricia McNulty    (Yeoman Tina Lawton)
       Robert Herron       (Crewman In Gym)
       Robert Walker, Jr.  (Charlie Evans)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana

Story By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Lawrence Dobkin
¡Balance Of Terror [TOS #9]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/balanceterror.iff
Stardate 1709.2

The marriage of Angela Martine and Robert Tomlinson is interrupted when a
Romulan warbird attacks and destroys Outpost 4, which guards the Neutral Zone
between Federation and Romulan space. Kirk learns that the Romulan ship has
also destroyed three other outposts and is now running at full speed towards
home.

The U.S.S. Enterprise pursues the warbird, hampered by the fact that the
Romulans have constructed an invisibility screen which shields them from view.
While the screen protects the Romulans from detection visually, it also
prevents them using their weapons or visual aids. The Romulan Commander,
therefore, isn't sure whether his radar is detecting a Federation ship in
pursuit or a harmless space echo.

The U.S.S. Enterprise is able to pick up a visual from the Romulan bridge,
which shows the previously unseen Romulans to look very much like Vulcans.
This sparks an old prejudice in Lt. Andrew Stiles, whose family fought in the
Romulan wars. He is instantly suspicious of Spock, whose physical
characteristics are remarkably similar to the Romulans they are chasing.

After every attempt to lose the U.S.S. Enterprise fails, the Romulan Commander
is forced to turn and fight. Both ships are damaged; when the U.S.S.
Enterprise's phaser banks are damaged, they emit a poisonous gas which
disables Stiles and Tomlinson, who are manning the weapons. In an exciting
race against time, Spock manages to fire the only remaining phaser manually,
disabling the Romulan ship. The Vulcan manages to save Stiles, but Tomlinson
is killed. Stiles, realizing by Spock's actions that his bigotry was
misplaced, admits that he was wrong.

The Romulan Commander contacts the U.S.S. Enterprise and, in a stirring
moment, tells Kirk that under other circumstances, he suspects they might be
friends. Rather than let himself and his ship be taken prisoner, the Romulan
destroys the warbird.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Baldavin    (Ensign Angela Martine)
       Garry Walberg       (Cmdr. Hanson)
       Grace Lee Whitney   (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       John Arndt          (Engineer Fields)
       John Warburton      (The Centurion)
       Lawrence Montaigne  (Decius)
       Mark Lenard         (Romulan Cmdr.)
       Paul Comi           (Lt. Stiles)
       Robert Chadwick     (Romulan Scanner Operator)
       Sean Morgan         (Romulan Crewman)
       Stephen Mines       (Lt. Robert Tomlinson)
       Vince Deadrick      (Romulan Crewman)
       Walter Davis        (Romulan Crewman)

Written By : Paul Schneider

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡What Are Little Girls Made Of? [TOS #10]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/littlegirls.iff
Stardate 2712.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives in orbit around Exo III, to search for
exobiologist Dr. Roger Korby. When Kirk asks Spock if Korby could possibly
still be alive, Spock glances at Christine, then quietly shuts off his
monitor. Christine Chapel, McCoy's chief nurse, is Korby's fiancee. Chapel had
signed on with the U.S.S. Enterprise in the hope of finding him. Korby is
known as the "Pasteur of archeological medicine."

At Dr. Korby's request, only Kirk and a very excited Christine Chapel beam
down to the planet. They find the doctor living in an underground cavern built
by what is known as "The Old Ones," the extinct natives of Exo III. He tells
them that he discovered the caverns while suffering from severe frostbite,
five years before.

Using equipment left behind by these now-dead beings, Korby has learned how to
construct androids who look and act like humans. His android companions, Ruk
and Andrea, amaze Kirk and Chapel with their realness. Although, Korby
explains, Ruk existed long before he arrived - a product of "The Old Ones."

Christine recognizes Dr. Brown, Korby's aide, but is mystified by his failure
to recognize her. The reason for his behavior becomes clear when they
discovered that he, too, is a sophisticated android. Korby's plan is to slowly
replace key people in the Federation with androids, integrating the machines
into other worlds.

Taking Kirk prisoner, Korby creates a perfect duplicate of the Captain, which
fools even Nurse Chapel. During the duplication process, however, Kirk plants
false memories and ideas in his double's brain which makes Spock realize that
something is very wrong. Korby, convinced that his android will fool the
U.S.S. Enterprise crew and allow him to take over the starship, has the double
beamed aboard. The false Kirk is to look over their proposed route and pick a
likely planet on which to begin colonization.

Spock immediately becomes suspicious of his captain until finally, after
spewing an ethnic slur at the first officer, Spock is certain that this is not
Capt. Kirk. He orders a landing party to meet him in the transporter room
after the Captain has beamed down to the planet. Meanwhile, on Exo III,
Christine Chapel realizes that somehow Roger Korby has changed; he's no longer
the wonderful man she'd fallen in love with. He's become somehow distant and
unfeeling... though he obviously still has a great fondness for his fiancee.

Separated from Christine, Kirk is being guarded by Ruk. The Captain convinces
the hulking android that Korby is a threat to his continued existence and must
be destroyed. Ruk attacks Korby and is eliminated. It is discovered, to
Christine's horror, that Korby has housed his essence inside an android body.
Kirk convinces the doctor that he's become more machine than human. In front
of his horrified fiancee, Korby grabs Andrea and fires a phaser blast that
kills them both. Spock arrives with a landing party to find only Kirk and
Christine remaining. Chapel announces that she would like to stay with the
U.S.S. Enterprise to complete her tour.

Crew : Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Budd Albright   (Rayburn)
       Harry Basch     (Dr. Brown)
       Majel Barrett   (Christine Chapel)
       Michael Strong  (Dr. Roger Korby)
       Sherry Jackson  (Andrea)
       Ted Cassidy     (Ruk)
       Vince Deadrick  (Matthews)

Written By : Robert Bloch

Directed By : James Goldstone
¡Dagger Of The Mind [TOS #11]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/dagger.iff
Stardate 2715.1

When Dr. Simon van Gelder, part of the psychiatric staff at the Tantalus Penal
Colony escapes to the U.S.S. Enterprise, exhibiting signs of manic insanity,
an enraged McCoy insists that Kirk investigate the colony. The Captain reminds
McCoy of Tantalus' excellent reputation, but McCoy is unconvinced.

Kirk and Dr. Helen Noel, the U.S.S. Enterprise's psychiatrist, tour the
facility. They discover that the Colony director, Dr. Tristan Adams, has been
using a brainwashing device, the neural neutralizer, to control not only the
colony's inmates, but his staff, as well. When the doctor realizes that Kirk
has discovered his secret, he convinces the captain to try the machine for
himself, to prove that it is perfectly safe. The result is that Kirk falls
madly in love with Helen Noel and the two remain on the Colony as Adams'
prisoners.

Meanwhile, on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, van Gelder is in such a distraught
state from the neural conditioning that he is unable to explain to Spock what
is going on at the penal colony. The Vulcan attempts a mind-meld with van
Gelder and discovers what has been happening on the planet below. On Tantalus,
Dr. Noel escapes through an air-conditioning duct to the power room, where she
lowers the planet's defense shields, enabling Spock to beam down a security
team.

Kirk recovers enough to fight Adams, who falls into his torturous machine.
Weakened by the conditioning and his fight with the doctor, Kirk stumbles
away, not knowing that Adams is still in the neutralizer. Adams is later found
dead. Dr. van Gelder is made sane again and returns to direct the Tantalus
Colony.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Ed McCready      (Inmate)
       Eli Behar        (Therapist)
       James Gregory    (Dr. Tristan Adams)
       John Arndt       (Crewman #1)
       Larry Anthony    (Transporter Operator)
       Marianne Hill    (Dr. Helen Noel)
       Morgan Woodward  (Dr. Simon Van Gelder)
       Susanne Wasson   (Lethe)
       Walter Davis     (Therapist)

Written By : S. Bar-David

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡Miri [TOS #12]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/miri.iff
Stardate 2713.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise answers an old distress signal to find an unnamed planet
that is almost an exact duplicate of Earth in the 1960s. A landing party beams
down and discovers that 300 years before, the natives of the planet had
conducted experiments to prolong life, but had, instead, created a deadly
virus. The virus had killed all adults by rapid aging and madness. In
children, the virus slowed the natural aging process greatly, providing
centuries of prepubescence.

There are no adults on the planet, only children, and they survive the best
that they can without adults to aid them. The landing party contracts the
virus, except for Spock, who becomes a carrier of the disease. Until a cure
for the disease can be found and created, the landing party is confined to the
planet. To return to the U.S.S. Enterprise would mean a rapid spread of the
disease.

The landing party attempts to make friends with the children, but they vividly
remember the horrible deaths of their parents and refuse to have anything to
do with them. One of the older children, Miri, falls in love with Kirk and
tries to help him with the other children until she begins to see Yeoman Rand
as a rival for the captain's affections. Stung, Miri helps Jahn, one of the
boys, to lead the children in a campaign to harass the U.S.S. Enterprise crew
members. When Kirk tries to reason with the children, he is badly beaten.

One of the older children begins to exhibit symptoms of the disease and Kirk
convinces them that they all will get the virus and die horribly, when they
finally reach puberty. Using himself as a guinea pig, McCoy creates an
antidote from old research notes found in the planet's lab, and finds the
cure. The doctor says that the Federation will probably send supervisory
personnel to colonize the planet and take care of the children.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Darlene Roddenberry  (Dirty-Faced Girl In Flowered Dress)
       David L. Ross        (Lt. Galloway)
       David Ross           (Security Guard #1)
       Dawn Roddenberry     (Little Blond Girl)
       Ed McCready          (Boy Creature)
       Grace Lee Whitney    (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       Irene Sale           (Female Creature / Louise)
       Jim Goodwin          (Lt. John Farrell)
       John Arndt           (Security Guard #2)
       John Megna           (Little Boy)
       Jon Dweck            (Boy Who Stole Phasers)
       Keith Taylor         (Jahn's Friend)
       Kellie Flanagan      (Blond Girl)
       Kim Darby            (Miri)
       Lizabeth Shatner     (Blonde Girl In Red-Striped Dress)
       Melanie Shatner      (Brunette In Black Lace Dress)
       Michael J. Pollard   (Jahn)
       Phil Morris          (Boy In Army Helmet)
       Scott Dweck          (Boy Who Stole Phasers)
       Steven McEveety      (Redheaded Boy)

Written By : Adrian Spies

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡The Conscience Of The King [TOS #13]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/conscience.iff
Stardate 2817.6

Twenty-two years before this episode takes place, the governor of Tarsus IV,
Kodos, evoked emergency martial law and ordered half of the planet's
population executed. His intent was to address a severe food shortage on
Tarsus IV, and it earned him the name "Kodos the Executioner." It was believed
that Kodos died on the planet, but there is some belief that he may have
escaped and assumed another identity.

James Kirk, Lt. Kevin Riley, and Dr. Thomas Leighton are the only surviving
witnesses to Kodos' previous evil deeds; others who might have known Kodos
have been mysteriously killed in various accidents.

A traveling theatrical troupe arrives at Planet Q, and a Dr. Leighton contacts
the U.S.S. Enterprise regarding a new synthetic food concentrate. When he is
beamed aboard, he tells Kirk that his real reason for contacting him was to
tell the captain that he suspects Anton Karidian, the head actor in the
theater troupe, is really Kodos.

When Dr. Leighton is murdered, Kirk agrees to transport the Karidian Players
to the Benecia Colony on board the U.S.S. Enterprise. His real motive it to
study Karidian and his daughter in an attempt to learn if he is, indeed, Kodos
and responsible for Leighton's death.

When Riley is poisoned, the young man learns of Kirk's suspicions and goes to
the theater on board the U.S.S. Enterprise to kill Kodos. Kirk stops him and
takes the actor as his prisoner. Then he learns that Karidian's daughter,
Lenore, has been killing anyone who might know of her father's past life.
Karidian, who has been trying to forget his past, is horrified to find what
his daughter has been doing. Lenore aims a phaser at Kirk, but her father
steps into the line of fire and is killed. Lenore goes completely insane at
having killed her father.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arnold Moss        (Anton Karidian)
       Barbara Anderson   (Lenore Karidian)
       Bruce Hyde         (Lt. Kevin Riley)
       Eddie Paskey       (Mr. Leslie)
       Frank Vince        (Voice Of Jon Daily)
       Grace Lee Whitney  (Yeoman Janice Rand)
       Karl Bruck         (King Duncan)
       Majel Barrett      (Computer Voice)
       Marc Adams         (Hamlet)
       Natalie Norwick    (Martha Leighton)
       Troy David         (Larry Matson)
       William Sargent    (Dr. Thomas Leighton)

Written By : Barry Trivers

Directed By : Gerd Oswald
¡The Galileo Seven [TOS #14]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/galileo7.iff
Stardate 2821.5

On its way to deliver medical supplies to plague-ridden Hansen's Planet, the
U.S.S. Enterprise passes Murasaki 312. Since they are under Starfleet orders
to inspect galactic phenomena such as this quasarlike star group, McCoy,
Spock, Scott and four crewmen take a shuttlecraft, the Galileo, for a closer
look.

Without warning, the shuttlecraft is pulled off course and out of sensor range
of the U.S.S. Enterprise. Spock manages to crash land the shuttle on a foggy,
rocky area of Taurus II which is inhabited by giant, hostile humanoids.
Between attacks by the war-like residents and quarrels among themselves, the
crew attempts to repair the shuttle and get off the planet.

Because of an ionization of its instruments, the U.S.S. Enterprise is unable
to find the craft. On board, Commissioner Ferris demands that Kirk abandon the
search and proceed to Hansen's Planet. Two of the crewmen from the Galileo are
killed by the giant humanoids and Lt. Boma demands, irrationally, that Spock
stop his repairs in order to bury the dead men. Spock's logic will not permit
him to comply with the lieutenant's wishes in the face of their present
situation.

As the U.S.S. Enterprise prepares to leave the area without finding the
missing shuttle, the Galileo manages an unsteady orbit around the planet, but
is unable to pull away from its gravitational pull. Knowing it will send them
crashing to the planet's surface if his plan fails, Spock ignites the
remaining fuel. The U.S.S. Enterprise sees the meteor-like flare of the
burning fuel and beams the crew aboard as the Galileo disintegrates in the
planet's atmosphere. Later, Spock stubbornly insists that his desperate act
was not a human instinct to gamble, but a logical Vulcan approach to their
problem.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Buck Maffei      (Creature)
       David L. Ross    (Transporter Chief)
       Don Marshall     (Lt. Boma)
       Grant Woods      (Lt. Cmdr. Kelowitz)
       John Crawford    (Galactic High Commissioner Ferris)
       Majel Barrett    (Computer Voice)
       Peter Marko      (Lt. Gaetano)
       Phyllis Douglas  (Yeoman Mears)
       Reese Vaughn     (Lt. Latimer)

Teleplay By : Oliver Crawford
              S. Bar-David

Story By : Oliver Crawford

Directed By : Robert Gist
¡Court Martial [TOS #15]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/courtmartial.iff
Stardate 2947.3

When the U.S.S. Enterprise puts in at Starbase 11 for repairs caused in an ion
storm, Kirk gives his report of the circumstances of Lt. Comm. Ben Finney
death to Commodore Stone. All goes well until Spock arrives with the computer
visual tape of the bridge during the crisis. Spock tries to warn Kirk about
what is on the tape, but the Commodore takes it and plays it. While Kirk's
statement claims that Finney went into the U.S.S. Enterprise's ion pod to take
vital readings. When the storm made it necessary to jettison the pod, Kirk
warned Finney, during a yellow alert, and finally, switched to red alert
before jettisoning the ion pod, with Finney, apparently, inside.

What the computer tapes shows is Kirk pressing the pod-release switch while
still in a yellow alert status. The Commodore informs Kirk that he will have
to stand trial for possible court-martial for the death of Lt. Commander
Finney. Things are complicated even more when Finney's daughter, Jamie, blames
Kirk for her father's death.

When Kirk meets an old girlfriend, Lt. Areel Shaw, that evening she tells him
that she's arranged for a lawyer to come and see him. Unfortunately, she's
been assigned to prosecute his case and will try her best to bring him down.
Dejected, Kirk goes to his rooms to find that Samuel T. Cogley has moved in,
books and baggage. Kirk decides that he likes the quirky lawyer and they begin
the plan the captain's defense.

On the U.S.S. Enterprise, McCoy reprimands Spock for playing chess with the
computer while Kirk is on trial for murder. Spock explains that he has won
several games straight... a feat he should not have been able to accomplish
unless the computer is malfunctioning. McCoy's interest is piqued and the two
men discuss what this development could mean to the captain's defense.

At the trial, just as the defense has rested, Spock appears with the
information about the faulty computer. Cogley gives a stirring speech about
the rights of men versus machines and the Commodore finally allows the jury to
reconvene on board the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Spock explains that having programmed the computer for chess himself just
months before, the best he should have been able to do is stalemate.
Therefore, the officer explains, someone tampered with the computer, adjusting
its memory. When asked who had the knowledge for such an action, the Vulcan
admits that it could only have been himself, Kirk or Records Officer Ben
Finney. Cogley then suggests that Finney is still alive and hiding somewhere
on the U.S.S. Enterprise.

On the bridge, the ship's sensors have been boosted to pick up any sound on
the ship. Everyone but the bridge personnel and transporter attendant are
beamed to the surface and the demonstration begins. Switching on the sensors,
everyone's heartbeat on the ship is audible. One by one McCoy, using a
white-light masking device, eliminates the sound of everyone's heartbeat...
except one... Finney's.

Kirk goes after Finney and finds him hiding on the ship. Finney has harbored a
grudge against Kirk since they were both Ensigns, when Kirk had logged a
careless and potentially dangerous mistake of Finney's, which the man claims
has kept him from promotion over the years.

The two men fight, with Kirk finally winning. Finney had, however, damaged the
ship's engines and the U.S.S. Enterprise is losing its orbit. Racing against
time, Kirk manages to repair the damage and the U.S.S. Enterprise regains her
previous position. Kirk is cleared of all charges and Samuel T. Cogley takes
on a new client... Ben Finney.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Alice Rawlings      (Jamie Finney)
       Bart Conrad         (Capt. Krasnovsky)
       Elisha Cook         (Samuel T. Cogley)
       Hagan Beggs         (Mr. Hansen)
       Joan Marshall       (Lt. Areel Shaw)
       Majel Barrett       (Computer Voice / Starbase Computer Voice)
       Nancy Wong          (Personnel Officer)
       Percy Rodriguez     (Commodore Stone)
       Reginald Lal Singh  (Capt. Chandra)
       Richard Webb        (Lt. Cmdr. Benjamin Finney)
       Tom Curtis          (Corrigan)
       William Meader      (Space Command Representative Lindstrom)
       Winston De Lugo     (Timothy)

Teleplay By : Don M. Mankiewicz
              Steven W. Carabatsos

Story By : Don M. Mankiewicz

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Menagerie, Part 1 [TOS #16]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/menagerie.iff
Stardate 3012.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise and her crew are diverted by a signal from the former
captain of the U.S.S. Enterprise on Starbase 6, and proceed to the call. When
they arrive they find Captain Christopher Pike, who is severely crippled by
radiation burns, confined to a moving chair and limited in his ability to
communicate to the answers "yes" or "no."

Unbeknownst to Captain Kirk, Spock abducts Pike on board the ship. Captain
Kirk returns to the U.S.S. Enterprise with Commodore Mendez, and soon
discovers that Spock has locked the ship's controls on a course set for the
planet Talos IV - a planet to which a visit carries the death penalty. Forced
by the extreme actions of the Vulcan first officer, the two convene a court-
martial against Spock.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Adam Roarke     (Chief Petty Officer Garrison)
       Brett Dunham    (Security Chief)
       Clegg Hoyt      (Transporter Chief Pitcairn)
       George Sawaya   (Chief Humbolt)
       Hagan Beggs     (Mr. Hansen)
       Ian Reddin      (Security Guard)
       Jeffrey Hunter  (Capt. Christopher Pike)
       John Hoyt       (Dr. Phillip Boyce)
       Julie Parrish   (Miss Piper)
       Laurel Goodwin  (Yeoman J.M. Colt)
       M. Leigh Hudec  (Number One)
       Majel Barrett   (Computer Voice / Starbase Computer Voice)
       Malachi Throne  (Commodore Jose Mendez)
       Meg Wyllie      (The Keeper)
       Peter Duryea    (Navigator Jose Tyler)
       Sean Kenney     (Paralysed Pike)
       Susan Oliver    (Vina)
       Tom Lupo        (Security Guard)

Written By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Menagerie, Part 2 [TOS #17]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/menagerie.iff
Stardate 3013.1

During the proceedings, from an unknown source, they watch the events that
transpired when Captain Pike was in command of the U.S.S. Enterprise. They are
shown Pike's initial contact with the Talosians - a race of beings eager to
study human beings in their natural state, and who can provide illusions to
make things appear exactly as they would like. The transmission relays Captain
Pike's entire mission surrounding the Talosians and their bizarre experiments
while holding him in a powerful cage. The Talosians are telepathic beings,
able to dig deep into the memories to find whatever illusion will be most
effective. They attempt to hold Pike captive until his passion and fury force
them to release him.

As the proceedings end, the entire court-martial is found to be meaningless, a
result of Commodore Mendez being an illusion created by the Talosians for
Kirk's benefit. The events, as well, which depicted Pike on Talos IV were also
found to originate from the Talosians.

Because of Pike's condition, Spock has risked his career and freedom to bring
his former captain to a place where he will be able to live an illusion of a
pleasant life, rather than the tragically limited one he lives now. Kirk
allows Pike to beam down to Talos IV and all charges against Spock are
dropped.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Adam Roarke     (Chief Petty Officer Garrison)
       Brett Dunham    (Security Chief)
       Clegg Hoyt      (Transporter Chief Pitcairn)
       George Sawaya   (Chief Humbolt)
       Hagan Beggs     (Mr. Hansen)
       Ian Reddin      (Security Guard)
       Jeffrey Hunter  (Capt. Christopher Pike)
       John Hoyt       (Dr. Phillip Boyce)
       Julie Parrish   (Miss Piper)
       Laurel Goodwin  (Yeoman J.M. Colt)
       M. Leigh Hudec  (Number One)
       Majel Barrett   (Computer Voice / Starbase Computer Voice)
       Malachi Throne  (Commodore Jose Mendez)
       Meg Wyllie      (The Keeper)
       Peter Duryea    (Navigator Jose Tyler)
       Sean Kenney     (Paralysed Pike)
       Susan Oliver    (Vina)
       Tom Lupo        (Security Guard)

Written By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Robert Butler
¡Shore Leave [TOS #18]
1966048*o*Data/STOS/shoreleave.iff
Stardate 3025.3

A U.S.S. Enterprise landing party beams down to an uncharted planet. The
planet seems like a perfect candidate for shore leave with its "Earth-type"
characteristics. Kirk sends McCoy down with the party to check it out.

McCoy's first encounter on the new world is with a life-sized white rabbit in
a waistcoat, being chased by a little girl in a pinafore. Kirk answers McCoy's
somewhat odd call for help and beams down himself to find his old rival from
academy days, Finnigan. While trying to catch his old enemy, Kirk meets Ruth,
an old girlfriend. He notices that neither Finnigan nor Ruth have changed in
appearance since he'd last seen them. Elsewhere, Sulu is attacked by a Samurai
Warrior while others are chased by tigers and aircraft.

McCoy, who has paired off with Yeoman Tonia Barrows, is killed by a black
knight on horseback. As the perils become more and more deadly, Kirk and Spock
realize that their thoughts are somehow coming to life around them.

An old man appears, explaining that this planet is designed as an "amusement
park," and he is the Caretaker for the world. The planet is not meant to be
hostile, and the results of one's fantasies are not lasting. McCoy appears,
healed, with a Rigel Cabaret girl on each arm. Tonia disengages the good
doctor and they go off to spend what promises to be an enjoyable vacation
together. The Caretaker invites Kirk and his crew to spend their leave on his
planet. Kirk agrees, realizing that once warned, it would provide a most
diverting vacation spot. As he makes his decision, Ruth appears.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Baldavin  (Ensign Angela Martine)
       Bill Blackburn    (White Rabbit)
       Bruce Mars        (Finnegan)
       Emily Banks       (Yeoman Tonia Barrows)
       Jim Gruzal        (Don Juan)
       John Carr         (Security Guard)
       Marcia Brown      (Alice in Wonderland)
       Oliver McGowan    (Caretaker)
       Paul Baxley       (Black Knight)
       Perry Lopez       (Lt. Esteban Rodriguez)
       Shirley Bonne     (Ruth)
       Tom Sebastian     (Warrior)

Written By : Theodore Sturgeon

Directed By : Robert Sparr
¡The Squire Of Gothos [TOS #19]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/squiregothos.iff
Stardate 2124.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise must cross an empty sector of space on their way to
deliver supplies to Colony Beta VI. In this space, they find an uncharted
planet whose presence can't be explained. After Kirk and Sulu disappear
without apparent reason, Spock orders McCoy and geophysicist Lt. Karl Jaeger
to the planet's surface to begin a search.

They find Trelane, a humanoid with tremendous psionic powers and a passion for
Earth's 18th century military history. It is he, they discover, who
impulsively kidnapped Kirk and Sulu, wanting to add them to his arena of the
Napoleonic era that he has created on this planet, Gothos.

While Trelane has great powers, he has little self-control and is spoiled,
willful and impetuous. When McCoy and Jaeger appear, Trelane invites them all
to join him at his party.

Spock manages to beam them aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, but Trelane,
determined to have his way in all matters, transports the entire bridge crew
to Gothos for a banquet. Kirk challenges Trelane to a duel and in the process,
destroys the device the alien uses to create his illusions. However, Trelane
repairs it and prevents the U.S.S. Enterprise from leaving orbit until he can
punish Kirk for his rash actions.

In exchange for freedom for the U.S.S. Enterprise and her crew, Kirk offers
himself as the prey in a "fox hunt." Suddenly, as Trelane is about to kill the
Captain, two more humanoids appear. They explain to Kirk that they are
Trelane's parents, and apologize for letting their child play such dangerous
games. They then scold the errant child for his selfish behavior and temper
tantrums. They inform Trelane that he will not be allowed to have another
planet to play with until he learns how to treat other beings with respect.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Babcock   (Voice Of Trelane's Mother)
       James Doohan      (Voice Of Trelane's Father)
       Michael Barrier   (Lt. DeSalle)
       Richard Carlyle   (Lt. Karl Jaeger)
       Venita Wolf       (Yeoman Teresa Ross)
       William Campbell  (Trelane)

Written By : Paul Schneider

Directed By : Don McDougall
¡Arena [TOS #20]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/arena.iff
Stardate 3045.6

The U.S.S. Enterprise is in pursuit of an unknown alien ship which has
destroyed a Starfleet base on Cestus III. In an uncharted area of space, both
the alien ship and the Enterprise are caught by an advanced race called
Metrons. The Metrons are angry at the two ships for trespassing into their
space and believe that physical combat is the answer to finding justice.

They transport Kirk and the alien captain, a lizard-like creature called a
Gorn, to an uninhabited asteroid to fight to the death. The Metrons promise
that the victor and his ship will be set free, while the loser will be
destroyed, along with his ship and crew.

The Gorn informs Kirk that the base on Cestus III was destroyed because it was
believed to be a hostile intrusion on Gorn space. The Gorn is seven feet tall
and much stronger than a human, with an extremely aggressive nature, but Kirk
has the advantage of speed and agility that his opponent lacks. Kirk manages
to keep out of the Gorn's way long enough to mix local minerals into
gunpowder, which he uses in a primitive cannon to wound the Gorn captain.

When Kirk refuses to kill the Gorn, the Metrons decide that there may be some
hope for the human species after all. Both captains and their ships are set
free.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Carole Shelyne  (Metron)
       Gary Coombs     (Bobby Clark)
       Grant Woods     (Lt. Cmdr. Kelowitz)
       James Farley    (Lt. Lang)
       Jerry Ayres     (Lt. O'Herlihy)
       Sean Kenney     (Lt. DePaul)
       Tom Troupe      (Lt. Harold)
       Vic Perrin      (Voice Of The Gorn / Voice Of The Metron)

Teleplay By : Gene L. Coon

Story By : Fredric Brown

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡The Alternative Factor [TOS #21]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/altfactor.iff
Stardate 3087.6

While orbiting what should be a dead planet, the U.S.S. Enterprise experiences
a moment of "nonexistence." Starfleet Command fears an enemy invasion and
orders Kirk to find out what caused the stellar system disturbance.

On the planet below, Kirk finds a man called Lazarus, who tells Kirk that the
effect was caused by his enemy. Lazarus has been chasing him with the aid of a
time/space craft and wants the Enterprise's dilithium crystals to continue his
search. The captain refuses.

When Kirk takes Lazarus aboard the Enterprise, it becomes apparent that there
is something strange about their visitor. He has incredible mood swings, one
minute sane and rational, the next exhibiting violent rage. He also has a
bloody head wound that disappears, then reappears moments later.

Lazarus manages to steal the ship's dilithium and return to the planet. Kirk
follows and discovers that Lazarus is two people - one sane and one a madman,
with one from an anti-matter universe. The sane Lazarus informs Kirk that the
beings can only appear in either universe one at a time. Should both men be in
the same place at the same time, both universes would be destroyed. Kirk helps
the sane Lazarus trap his counterpart in an intermediate time corridor where
they can hurt neither the matter nor anti-matter universe, but where the two
will be trapped in fight until the end of time.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arch Whiting       (Assistant Engineer)
       Bill Blackburn     (Security Guard)
       Christian Patrick  (Transporter Chief)
       Eddie Paskey       (Mr. Leslie)
       Janet MacLachlan   (Lt. Charlene Masters)
       Larry Riddle       (Officer)
       Richard Derr       (Commodore Barstow)
       Robert Brown       (Lazarus)
       Ron Veto           (Security Guard)
       Tom Lupo           (Security Guard)
       Vince Calenti      (Security Guard)

Written By : Don Ingalls

Directed By : Gerd Oswald
¡Tomorrow Is Yesterday [TOS #22]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/tomyes.iff
Stardate 3113.2

When the U.S.S. Enterprise is thrown into a time warp by a black star, it ends
up orbiting Earth in the 20th century. Omaha Air Base detects a peculiar UFO
and sends a fighter plane, manned by Captain John Christopher, to investigate.

The starship accidentally destroys the plane, caught in their tractor beam, so
the pilot is beamed aboard. The problem now, of course, is to prevent Captain
Christopher from returning to tell others on Earth. In order not to change
history, in which Christopher's son will prove important, Kirk must return the
captain to Earth without knowledge of the ship.

In an attempt to remove all records of the U.S.S. Enterprise sighting, Kirk
and Sulu beam down to the air base. Kirk is almost immediately captured by the
Air Police, though Sulu manages to escape and gets the stolen records to the
U.S.S. Enterprise. Spock and Captain Christopher beam down to help get Kirk
away from the Air Police. At the same time, an Air Police sergeant has been
accidentally caught in the U.S.S. Enterprise's transporter beam and is reeling
as he finds himself on a 23rd century starship.

Spock and Scotty manage to recreate the conditions of the time warp that
brought them to this time, with a slingshot effect around the Sun. The
confused Air Police sergeant is returned to Earth a second before he was
transported to the U.S.S. Enterprise, so he will remember nothing of his
astounding experience, and the starship returns to the 23rd century.

This time, the pilot sees nothing and the Air Force concludes that the
sighting was a mistake... a UFO. In effect, everything that had happened,
never happened.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Ed Peck             (Col. Fellini)
       Hal Lynch           (Air Police Sergeant)
       Jim Spencer         (Air Policeman)
       John Winston        (Transporter Chief Mr. Kyle)
       Majel Barrett       (Computer Voice)
       Mark Dempsey        (Air Force Captain)
       Richard Merrifield  (Technician Webb)
       Roger Perry         (Capt. John Christopher)
       Sherri Townsend     (Crewwoman)

Written By : D.C. Fontana

Directed By : Michael O'Herlihy
¡The Return Of The Archons [TOS #23]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/returnarchons.iff
Stardate 3156.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise is investigating Beta III, where the U.S.S. Archon
disappeared over 100 years before.

When the landing party exhibits strange behavior, Kirk sends another party
down to investigate. They find the culture on Beta III is quiescent, with no
creative tendencies. The entire culture is controlled by a group of
'lawgivers' known as "The Body" which is, in turn, controlled by the
omniscient Landru. The inhabitants change from normal, peaceful people to a
violent mob at the coming of the Red Hour. This 'Festival' is the society's
only outlet for the tyrannical hold that Landru has over them at all other
times.

Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise is being pulled from its orbit, its crew to
be absorbed into the Body. This, they discover, is what happened to the U.S.S.
Archon, so many years before.

Archon survivors have formed an underground of sorts to fight the Body, and
they help Kirk and Spock reach Landru. Landru turns out to be an incredibly
complex computer built by Landru, a scientist who lived 6,000 years before,
who wanted to guide his people into a peaceful, civilized progress.

Landru had affected the computer with his scientific thoughts and memories,
but not his wisdom. For centuries the computer, 'Landru', has been
interpreting his suggestions to the point that no one is allowed independent
thought. Kirk tells the computer that instead of helping to nurture the
culture of Beta III, it has harmed it. Landru destroys itself, leaving the
Betans to work toward the sort of culture Landru had wanted so many centuries
before. With the promise of Federation help on the way, Kirk and his crew beam
back to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Weber     (Dancing Woman)
       Brioni Farrell    (Tula)
       Charles MaCauley  (Landru)
       Christopher Held  (Lindstrom)
       David L. Ross     (Guard)
       Eddie Paskey      (Mr. Leslie)
       Harry Townes      (Reger)
       Jon Lormer        (Tamar)
       Miko Mayama       (Yeoman Tamura)
       Morgan Farley     (Hacom)
       Ralph Maurer      (Bilar)
       Sean Morgan       (Lt. O'Neil)
       Sid Haig          (Lawgiver #1)
       Torin Thatcher    (Marplon)

Teleplay By : Boris Sobelman

Story By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡A Taste Of Armageddon [TOS #24]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/tastearm.iff
Stardate 3192.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise is ordered to pick up Ambassador Robert Fox, who is
headed to planet Eminiar VII on a diplomatic mission. Upon arriving at the
planet, the ship is warned away.

Beaming to the surface with a landing party, Kirk and Spock are met by a young
woman, Mea 3, who tells them that Eminiar VII has been at war with its
neighboring planet, Vendikar, for over 500 years. Mea 3 takes them to the
council chambers where they find banks of computers. Eminiar's head council
Anan 7 informs them that the two planets have learned to avoid the complete
devastation of war because computers are used. When a "hit" is declared by one
of the planets, the people declared "dead" willingly walk into an antimatter
chamber and are vaporized. Anan 7 further tells Kirk that his ship and all the
crew aboard her have been declared casualties and will be executed. When Kirk
flatly refuses, the landing party members are taken prisoner.

The council members are unable to convince Scotty, in charge of the U.S.S.
Enterprise, to lower shields without a direct order from Captain Kirk.
Meanwhile, Ambassador Fox has beamed to Eminiar and is also taken prisoner,
marked for death. Kirk and Spock escape and gain the council chambers where
they destroy the computers. Kirk tells the council members that they have made
this war too easy for themselves and that they will truly experience the
horrors of war if they do not learn to make peace first. Ambassador Fox
volunteers to stay behind and negotiate a peace between the neighboring
planets.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Babcock  (Mea 3)
       Bill Blackburn   (Eminiar Guard / Eminiar Technician)
       David L. Ross    (Lt. Galloway)
       David Opatoshu   (Anan 7)
       Eddie Paskey     (Eminiar Guard / Eminiar Technician)
       Frank da Vinci   (Lt. Osborne)
       Frank Vinci      (Eminiar Guard / Eminiar Technician)
       Gene Lyons       (Ambassador Robert Fox)
       John Burnside    (Eminiar Guard / Eminiar Technician)
       Majel Barrett    (Computer Voice)
       Malone           (Ambassadorial Secretary)
       Miko Mayama      (Yeoman Tamura)
       Robert Sampson   (Sar 6)
       Ron Veto         (Eminiar Guard / Eminiar Technician)
       Sean Kenney      (Lt. DePaul)

Teleplay By : Gene L. Coon
              Robert Hamner

Story By : Robert Hamner

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Space Seed [TOS #25]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/spaceseed.iff
Stardate 3141.9

A piece of one of history's great puzzles falls into place when Kirk's crew
comes across the S.S. Botany Bay, an old-style, pre-warp sleeper ship from
Earth that contains several bodies in stasis. Amongst these bodies is Khan
Noonien Singh, a genetically engineered strongman and one of the great leaders
of Earth's Eugenics War of the 1990s. Although he disappeared without a trace
then, once Khan is aroused from his long sleep he soon reveals the ambition,
strength and intelligence that helped him conquer a quarter of the Earth.

Once aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, Khan quickly befriends the beautiful
Lieutenant Marla McGivers, the ship's historian who has a passion for
strong-willed leaders. Together with his Botany Bay crew and new companion,
they seize control of the Enterprise by capturing the engine room. Before it's
too late, Marla has great misgivings about her newfound loyalties. With her
help, Kirk and Spock regain control of the ship by flooding it with gas.
Khan's men are soon overtaken and a due punishment is meted out. Khan and his
crew, including Marla McGivers, are exiled to a planet where they must start
life anew

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Baldavin   (Angela Baker)
       Blaisdell Makee    (Lt. Spinelli)
       Bobby Bass         (Guard)
       Jan Reddin         (Crewman)
       Joan Johnson       (Botany Bay Elite Female Guard)
       Joan Webster       (Nurse)
       John Arndt         (Crewman)
       John Winston       (Transporter Technician)
       Kathy Ahart        (Crewwoman)
       Madlyn Rhue        (Lt. Marla McGivers)
       Mark Tobin         (Joaquin)
       Ricardo Montalban  (Khan Noonian Singh)

Teleplay By : Carey Wilber
              Gene L. Coon

Story By : Carey Wilber

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡This Side Of Paradise [TOS #26]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/sideparadise.iff
Stardate 3417.3

Expecting the colonists of Omicron Ceti III to be dead after three years of
exposure to deadly Berthold rays, Kirk and Spock are surprised to find the
colony alive and flourishing.

Spock beams to the surface and meets a young botanist, Leila Kalomi, that he'd
worked with previously and they renew the old friendship. When she'd worked
with Spock six years before on Earth, Leila had tried to interest Spock
romantically, and failed. Now she leads the Vulcan to a secluded section of
the planet where a native plant sprays him with their spores. Leila tells
Spock that the plant induces feelings of harmony and peace and love, along
with a desire to remain on Omicron Ceti III and their paradise.

The spores serve to break down Spock's inhibitions and soon he has declared
his love for Leila and his desire to remain on the planet. Some of the plants
are beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise and more of the crew are affected.

Captain Kirk, the last holdout, finally is affected by the power of the spores
and discovers, through his own violent, adverse effect at leaving his beloved
U.S.S. Enterprise, that strong, violent emotions are what reverse the effect
of the spores.

Kirk manages to lure Spock back to the U.S.S. Enterprise where he goads Spock
into a fight. The extra adrenaline in the Vulcan's system pushes the effect of
the spores from Spock and he reverts to normal... just short of killing
Captain Kirk.

Using subsonic sound waves, the two officers manage to bring around the rest
of the crew and colonists. Now that the colonists realize that the spores have
prevented them from making any real progress and accomplishments, they plan to
relocate where the plants do not grow.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bobby Bass       (Crewman #2)
       Dick Scotter     (Mr. Painter)
       Eddie Paskey     (Mr. Leslie)
       Frank Overton    (Elias Sandoval)
       Fred Shue        (Crewman)
       Grant Woods      (Lt. Cmdr. Kelowitz)
       Jill Ireland     (Leila Kalomi)
       John Lindesmith  (Engineer)
       Michael Barrier  (Lt. DeSalle)
       Sean Morgan      (Engineer)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana

Story By : D.C. Fontana
           Nathan Butler

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡The Devil In The Dark [TOS #27]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/devildark.iff
Stardate 3196.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives to investigate reports of an unknown monster
deep in the mining tunnels of Janus VI. The being is apparently destroying
machinery and killing the miners, and has the ability to burrow through solid
rock. Janus VI is a source for the rare mineral, pergium.

Soon after the landing party arrives on the planet's surface, a reactor pump
is stolen and the colony is in jeopardy from fluctuating life support
functions. However, this convinces Spock that they are dealing, not with a
mindless monster, but with an intelligent lifeform.

Kirk and Spock, along with members of the ship's security team, enter the
mines to find the creature. They discover a large, rock-like creature that
burrows easily through the stone walls, as a mole might burrow through dirt.
Wounded in a phaser blast, the bulky creature manages to escape through the
stone wall.

They continue pursuit and eventually Kirk is trapped by the creature. When it
doesn't attack, Spock attempts a Vulcan mind meld with the entity and
discovers that it is, in fact, an intelligent being. A native of the planet,
the creature is normal peaceful, and called the Horta. It doesn't mind sharing
the planet with the miners, but when the men broke into the Horta's hatchery
and unknowingly destroyed many of her eggs, it attacked to protect its
remaining unborn children.

With Spock acting as interpreter, the miners explain that they thought the
eggs were some king of silicon nodules and that no hostility had been meant.

McCoy treats the silicon-based creature, with a trowel and patch material, and
heals it. An alliance is formed between the Horta and the miners; the young,
newly hatched Hortas will mine the pergium at a far faster rate than the
humans could and the miners will be extremely rich. Kirk retrieves the missing
reactor and the landing party leaves the inhabitants of Janus VI living in
peaceful co-existence.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barry Russo      (Lt. Cmdr. Giotto)
       Biff Elliot      (Schmitter)
       Brad Weston      (Ed Appel)
       Davis Roberts    (Lewis)
       Dick Dial        (Sam)
       Eddie Paskey     (Security Guard)
       Frank da Vinci   (Lt. Osborne)
       George E. Allen  (Engineer #1)
       Janos Prohaska   (Horta)
       Jon Cavett       (Guard)
       Ken Lynch        (Chief Engineer Vanderberg)

Written By : Gene L. Coon

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Errand Of Mercy [TOS #28]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/errandmercy.iff
Stardate 3198.4

Kirk and Spock beam down to the surface of planet Organia to negotiate for the
erection of a Federation base on that planet. Hostilities between the nearby
Klingon Empire and Federation have reached alarming heights and it is feared
that the medieval culture of the Organians will not be able to withstand a
Klingon attack. However, the Organian Counsel, comprised of five seemingly
pleasant, benign elderly men, insist that they prefer to stay with their more
primitive culture.

When Kor and his Klingon force attack the planet, Kirk and Spock go undercover
as Organian and Vulcan traders. They are captured by the Klingons, and to
their surprise, the Organians free them with ease. In turn, the Klingon ship
and the U.S.S. Enterprise square off to battle in orbit of the planet.

Displeased by the outbreak of violence, the Organians reveal themselves to be
powerful creatures of pure energy who easily neutralize the weapons on both
ships, thus ending the threat for the moment.

Back on the U.S.S. Enterprise, Kirk feels certain that the Organians will not
only take care of themselves in the future, but monitor their surroundings for
any hint of hostilities.

Crew : George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bobby Bass            (Klingon Guard)
       David Hillary Hughes  (Trefayne)
       Gary Coombs           (Klingon Guard)
       George Sawaya         (Second Soldier)
       John Colicos          (Cmdr. Kor)
       Jon Abbott            (Ayelborne)
       Peter Brocco          (Claymare)
       Victor Lundin         (Klingon Lt.)
       Walter Davis          (Klingon Soldier)

Written By : Gene L. Coon

Directed By : John Newland
¡The City On The Edge Of Forever [TOS #29]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/cityedge.iff
Stardate 3134.0

McCoy accidentally injects himself with an overdose of cordrazine, a drug
which makes him exhibit signs of paranoia and madness, while treating an
ailing Sulu on the bridge. Delirious, he beams down to a nearby planet's
surface, with Kirk and a landing party on his heels.

They are too late to stop the doctor from leaping through a living time
machine called "The Guardian of Forever." At that moment, the U.S.S.
Enterprise ceases to exist and the landing party is stranded. The Guardian
explains that McCoy went back into Earth's history and changed it, thereby
altering the future. Kirk and Spock go through the Guardian, to Depression-era
America, a few days before McCoy is to arrive and change history.

They encounter a social worker, Edith Keeler, who helps them find work to pay
for the equipment Spock requires to build a tricorder. Unknown to Kirk and
Spock, Edith has taken in the recently-arrived and ill McCoy. Kirk promptly
falls in love with Edith and is devastated when Spock completes his tricorder
and discovers that in order to repair history, they must let Edith Keeler be
killed in an auto accident. If they allow McCoy to save her - as he did
before - she will start an effective pacifist movement that will delay the
United States' entrance into World War II, thus allowing Hitler's Germany to
develop the atomic bomb first and conquer the planet.

When the moment comes, a heartbroken Kirk stops McCoy from saving Edith, and
the three officers journey back through the Guardian, where they find things
as they should be again.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bart LaRue       (Voice Of The Guardian)
       Carey Loftin     (Truck Driver)
       David L. Ross    (Lt. Galloway)
       Hal Baylor       (Policeman)
       Joan Collins     (Edith Keeler)
       John Harmon      (Rodent)
       John Winston     (Transporter Chief)
       Michael Barrier  (Lt. DeSalle)

Written By : Harlan Ellison

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Operation -- Annihilate! [TOS #30]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/operationann.iff
Stardate 3287.2

Arriving at the planet Deneva, home of Kirk's only brother Sam and his family,
the U.S.S. Enterprise picks up a transmission from a Denevan pilot who has
steered his craft into the sun to destroy some unknown menace.

Beaming down to the planet, Kirk finds his brother dead and Sam's wife in a
fatal condition. Their only son, Peter, survives informing the landing party
of what has occurred. It seems that Deneva has been infested with large,
amoeba-like aliens that attack humans and intertwine their tentacles with the
body's nervous system. They can move short distances through the air and use
excruciating pain as a means of controlling their victims.

When Spock is attacked by one of the creatures, he uses his Vulcan mind
control to overcome the pain and return to duty. However, a cure must be
found; they must find a way to kill the parasite without harming its host.

Kirk remembers the pilot that flew into the sun and suggests that they may be
sensitive to intense light. Spock volunteers to be McCoy's test patient and
the doctor bombards him with light beams so strong that the Vulcan is blinded.
Too late, the doctor realizes that only ultraviolet light is needed to kill
the creatures.

Kirk sets off ultraviolet satellite flares over the planet Deneva, freeing its
people from the parasites. Fortunately, Spock's blindness is temporary, due to
a second eyelid developed by Vulcans to protect their eyes from the harsh sun
on planet Vulcan.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Craig Hundley    (Peter Kirk)
       Dave Armstrong   (Kartan)
       Eddie Paskey     (Transporter Chief)
       Fred Carson      (Denevan #1)
       Jerry Catron     (Denevan #2)
       Joan Swift       (Aurelan Kirk)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       William Shatner  (Sam Kirk)
       Zahra Maurishka  (Yeoman)

Written By : Steven W. Carabatsos

Directed By : Herschel Daugherty
¡Catspaw [TOS #31]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/catspaw.iff
Stardate 3018.2

On the planet Pyris VII, two beings known as Korob and Sylvia have been sent
on a mission of conquest by their home world. Using a matter transmuter, they
assume human form to welcome the U.S.S. Enterprise landing party.

When one member of the initial landing party returns to the ship dead, Kirk,
Spock and McCoy beam down to find Scotty and Sulu transformed into mindless
zombies. Sylvia and Korob appear as witch and warlock and use scare tactics to
keep the officers from investigating the planet and their motives. Kirk, Spock
and McCoy are taken prisoner and shown examples of Korob and Sylvia's
"powers," which includes heating a small model of the U.S.S. Enterprise over a
flame and having the heat transfer to the orbiting ship.

Sylvia takes an interest in Kirk and decides to abandon her original mission
in order to learn about human feelings and experiences. When she finds out the
captain is merely using her to gain an advantage, she becomes furious and
retaliates.

Korob ultimately helps the crew to escape, but Sylvia turns into a giant black
cat and crushes him. Kirk then uses Korob's wand transmuter to destroy
Sylvia's source of power - her amulet - before smashing the wand. Their
powers gone, the aliens revert to their true form - fragile blue creatures
who quickly die in the planet's atmosphere. With their demise, Scotty and Sulu
return to normal and the landing party beams back to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Antoinette Bower   (Sylvia)
       Gail Bonney        (Witch #2)
       Jimmy Jones        (Jackson)
       John Winston       (Mr. Kyle)
       Maryesther Denver  (Witch #3)
       Michael Barrier    (Lt. DeSalle)
       Mike Howden        (Lt. Rowe)
       Rhodie Cogan       (Witch #1)
       Theo Marcuse       (Korob)

Written By : Robert Bloch

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Metamorphosis [TOS #32]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/metamorphosis.iff
Stardate 3219.8

Assistant Federation Commissioner Nancy Hedford has become ill while trying to
stop a war on Epsilon Canaris III. The shuttlecraft Galileo is assigned to
take her to the U.S.S. Enterprise, where she will receive treatment for the
otherwise fatal Sakuro's disease.

En route, the shuttlecraft is pulled off course by a mysterious, cloud-like
entity. Deposited safely on the planet Gamma Canaris N, Kirk and his party
meet Zefram Cochrane, the scientist that discovered warp drive over 100 years
before. But Cochrane appears young and vital, despite his age. The cloud-like
creature, whom Cochrane calls, "The Companion," has kept him young and
handsome over the years. The Companion captured the Galileo in order to give
Cochrane human companionship.

The Companion prevents Spock from repairing the disabled shuttlecraft and Kirk
is worried that Nancy Hedford will die before they can get her to the U.S.S.
Enterprise for treatment.

By using a translating device, Kirk discovers that the cloud entity has a
female personality and is in love with Cochrane, who doesn't care for that
idea at all. He's fallen in love with Nancy Hedford and agrees to help destroy
the cloud creature so that they can save Nancy's life. When that attempt
fails, the cloud creature enters Nancy's body, saving her life, healing her.
In this way, the Companion can know human love with Cochrane and Nancy
Hedford's life can be saved. With the Companion no longer holding him on the
planet, Cochrane is free to leave, but decides to remain with what is now
Nancy/Companion. As the landing party departs, Cochrane and his new mate
contemplate children and a normal life span.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Elinor Donahue    (Commissioner Nancy Hedford)
       Elizabeth Rogers  (Voice Of The Companion)
       Glenn Corbett     (Zefram Cochrane)

Written By : Gene L. Coon

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡Friday's Child [TOS #33]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/fridayschild.iff
Stardate 3497.2

Sent to the planet Capella IV to negotiate a mining treaty, Kirk and a party
beam to the surface. They find the Capellan's warlike and tradition-bound
people. Kirk also finds that a Klingon agent, Kras, has gotten there before
them and established an agreement with some of the planet's rebels who kill
their leader, Akaar, and take over. Akaar's widow, Eleen, is willing to
forfeit her life, as custom demands, because she carries the child that will
be the next leader, or Teer.

Kirk convinces her to escape and they hide in the hills beyond the city. While
the landing party evades pursuit, a Klingon warbird prevents the U.S.S.
Enterprise from helping its people.

When Eleen goes into labor, McCoy delivers the child. Eleen, however, hits the
doctor over the head with a rock, knocking him out, and returns to the
Capellans. She tells them that the landing party and the child are dead. The
Klingon decides this is the time to take control and begins to attack the
Capellans.

Arriving on the scene, Kirk and Spock try to use primitive bows and arrows on
the Klingons which wound, but do not stop. Maab, the new Teer, draws the
Klingon fire while his lieutenant kills him. Eleen names her son Leonard James
Akaar, after Kirk and McCoy, and as her son's regent until he comes of age,
signs the mining treaty with the Federation.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Ben Gage        (Teer Akaar)
       Cal Bolder      (Keel)
       Julie Newmar    (Eleen)
       Kirk Raymone    (Duur)
       Michael Dante   (Maab)
       Robert Bralver  (Grant)
       Tige Andrews    (Kras)

Written By : D.C. Fontana

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Who Mourns For Adonais? [TOS #34]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/adonais.iff
Stardate 3468.1

As the U.S.S. Enterprise nears the planet Pollux IV, a huge, green hand made
of energy materializes in space, catching the U.S.S. Enterprise and holding it
captive. Kirk and a landing party are transported to the planet's surface were
find a being who claims to be Apollo, the last of the Greek gods who dwelled
on ancient Earth's Mount Olympus. All the other gods, Apollo tells Kirk, died
of loneliness when they left their home of Mount Olympus. Apollo's plan for
the U.S.S. Enterprise crew is that they settle on Pollux IV and worship their
god, Apollo.

Sensors show that Apollo's god-like abilities come from an organic ability to
use energy from sources outside himself. His apparent powers include storms,
thunderbolts and an ability to grow into a giant, towering above the U.S.S.
Enterprise landing party.

Attempts to foil Apollo's plans are hampered by Lt. Carolyn Palamas, who has
fallen in love with the god and whom Apollo decides will be his bride. Scotty,
who has beamed down with the party, had harbored hopes of romance with the
young lieutenant and objects to Apollo's attentions. Apollo's response is to
hurtle the engineer through the air by way of a thunderbolt.

Spock determines that the god's powers come from his temple. When Kirk tells
Lt. Palamas to reject Apollo, which she reluctantly does, the captain uses the
U.S.S. Enterprise's weapons to destroy Apollo's temple. Apollo, rejected by a
mortal woman and bereft of his powers, spreads himself upon the winds to join
his fellow Gods.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : John Winston    (Lt. Kyle)
       Leslie Parrish  (Lt. Carolyn Palamas)
       Michael Forest  (Apollo)

Written By : Gilbert Ralston

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Amok Time [TOS #35]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/amoktime.iff
Stardate 3372.7

When Spock begins to exhibit strange, erratic behavior, Kirk asks McCoy to
conduct a medical examination. McCoy concludes that Spock is experiencing a
potentially lethal internal distress.

Spock explains to them that Vulcans are married as children with the
understanding that they will fulfill this commitment when they become adults.
Spock has reached this time, the "pon farr," and if he doesn't get to Vulcan
immediately to mate with his bride, T'Pring, he will die. Kirk jeopardizes his
career by disobeying a direct order to the contrary from Starfleet, and
proceeds with all possible speed to Vulcan. As Spock's friends, Kirk and McCoy
are invited to witness the marriage ritual - the "koon-ut-kal-if-fee." T'Pau,
a highly respected member of the high-counsel, will conduct the ceremony.

Trouble starts when T'Pring announces she would rather marry Stonn, a full
Vulcan. T'Pring evokes her right to have Spock fight for her. However, she
chooses Kirk as her champion. Fearing his friend is too weak to fight, Kirk
agrees. It is only then he is informed that it is to be a fight to the death.

The fight ensues and Spock quickly demonstrates physical superiority. McCoy
objects to T'Pau that Kirk isn't used to the Vulcan atmosphere and climate. He
asks to inject the captain with a tri-ox compound to compensate. T'Pau agrees
and Kirk is given the injection.

During the fight, Spock kills Kirk and McCoy accompanies the captain's body
back to the U.S.S. Enterprise. Spock, his mating urges curbed by the knowledge
that Kirk, his friend and captain, is dead by his own hand, relinquishes
T'Pring to Stonn. He solemnly returns to the starship. There he finds Kirk
alive and well, having been injected not with tri-ox, but with a knock-out
drug which simulated the signs of death. Overjoyed, Spock smiles and utters a
delighted "Jim!" before returning to his controlled, logical self.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arlene Martel       (T'Pring)
       Byron Morrow        (Admiral Komack)
       Celia Lovsky        (T'Pau)
       Charles Palmer      (Vulcan Litter Bearer)
       Frank Vinci         (Vulcan Bell Carrier)
       Gary Wright         (Vulcan Litter Bearer)
       Joe Paz             (Vulcan Litter Bearer)
       Lawrence Montaigne  (Stonn)
       Majel Barrett       (Christine Chapel)
       Mauri Russell       (Vulcan Bell Carrier / Vulcan Litter Bearer)
       Russ Peek           (Vulcan Executioner)
       Walker Edmiston     (Space Central Voice)

Written By : Theodore Sturgeon

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡The Doomsday Machine [TOS #36]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/doomsday.iff
Stardate 4202.9

Sent to investigate the destruction of several planetary systems, the U.S.S.
Enterprise discovers a crippled starship, the U.S.S. Constellation, floating
in space. Commodore Matthew Decker is the only one left on the ship. Kirk and
Scotty remain on board the Constellation to try and repair the starship, while
McCoy beams Decker aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Decker informs the crew that a giant robot ship, a planet-eating machine made
by a long-dead alien race, is roaming the galaxies, consuming all in its path
for fuel, including whole planets. When Decker challenged it, the "berserker,"
as he calls it, attacked. Decker beamed his entire crew to the planet's
surface below, only to have the robot consume that planet, killing the
Constellation's entire crew.

When the "berserker" returns, Decker, consumed with guilt over the loss of his
crew, pulls rank on Spock and takes control of the U.S.S. Enterprise. He seems
determined to destroy the machine, even at the cost of another ship and crew.
Kirk, still on board the Constellation, contacts Spock and supports his claim
that Decker is exhibiting suicidal behavior and is therefore, unfit to
command. Thwarted, Decker steals a shuttlecraft and flies it down the 'throat'
of the giant robot ship, killing himself.

Realizing that Decker's idea, on a larger scale, might work, he sets the
Constellation to self-destruct and send it after Decker's shuttlecraft. Due to
a transporter glitch, Kirk barely makes it back to the U.S.S. Enterprise
before the Constellation explodes, destroying the planet killer in its path.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Elizabeth Rogers  (Lt. Palmer)
       Jerry Catron      (Security Guard Montgomery)
       John Copage       (Elliott)
       John Winston      (Mr. Kyle)
       Richard Compton   (Washburn)
       Tim Burns         (Russ)
       William Windom    (Commodore Matthew Decker)

Written By : Norman Spinrad

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Wolf In The Fold [TOS #37]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/wolf.iff
Stardate 3614.9

Kirk and McCoy decide to take Scotty, who is recovering from a head wound
accidentally caused by a female crew member, to a nightclub on the planet
Argelian. Scotty becomes infatuated with a lovely dancer at the club and they
leave together. In the meantime, Kirk and McCoy decide to sample some of the
planet's other pleasures and leave.

A scream sends them to a foggy alley to find the dancer dead with Scotty
holding a bloody knife. McCoy suggests that perhaps Scotty's subconscious
distrust of women, since his accident, has manifested itself in murder.

Hengist, the local authority, wants to arrest Scotty, but Kirk intervenes and
seeks the help of a priestess of an old psionic cult. Unfortunately, she's
killed and once more the blame seems to fall at Scotty's feet. Before she
dies, the priestess says that something with an insatiable hunger and hatred
of women is present in the room. Scotty still claims to have amnesia during
the time when the women were killed.

In the end, the entity turns out to be an ancient life form, Redjac,
previously known on Earth as Jack the Ripper. It now appears in true form; a
non-corporeal vampire who thrives on others' fear. It preys on women because
they are more easily frightened. It has been living in the body of Hengist
and, when discovered, kills Hengist and flees to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

McCoy administers tranquilizers to everyone on board so that the creature
cannot evoke fear. Enraged, it is forced to return to Hengist's body. Kirk,
knowing this would happen, beams it into space at maximum dispersal, where it
will die from lack of nourishment.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Charles Dierkop    (Morla)
       Charles MaCauley   (Jarvis)
       John Fielder       (Mr. Hengist)
       John Winston       (Argelian Bartender / Transporter Chief)
       Joseph Bernard     (Tark)
       Judi Sherven       (Nurse)
       Judy McConnell     (Yeoman Tankris)
       Majel Barrett      (Computer Voice)
       Marlys Burdette    (Serving Girl)
       Pilar Seurat       (Sybo)
       Suzanne Lodge      (Serving Girl)
       Tania Lemani       (Kara)
       Virginia Aldridge  (Lt. Karen Tracy)

Written By : Robert Bloch

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡The Changeling [TOS #38]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/changeling.iff
Stardate 3541.9

The U.S.S. Enterprise is sent to investigate the destruction of the Malurian
System and its four billion inhabitants. When it arrives at the coordinates,
the starship itself is threatened by a space going, self-contained
computer/probe calling itself Nomad. When Kirk identifies himself by name,
Nomad mistakes him for "The Kirk," and thinks him to be his creator.

Nomad is beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise and promptly erases Uhura's
memory and kills Scotty, claiming that neither life form was perfect. At
Kirk's demand Nomad repairs "the unit Scott," bringing him back to life.

Spock attempts a Vulcan mind meld with Nomad and learns that it was created on
Earth in the twenty first century by scientist Jackson Roykirk. Nomad's
program was to seek out new life and report back to Earth. Damaged in space by
a meteor, Nomad drifted until it found Tan Ru, an alien probe designed to
sterilize soil. Using their self-repair systems, the two probes combined
themselves into one. Nomad's programming was damaged and by joining with Tan
Ru's now believes its mission is to seek out life and destroy anything that it
does not believe perfect.

Kirk convinces Nomad that it had mistaken him, Captain James T. Kirk, for
Nomad's creator, Jackson Roykirk, thus making Nomad imperfect and a candidate
for "sterilization." A confused Nomad begins to self-destruct, exploding just
after Kirk beams the changeling into space. Kirk checks on Uhura's progress
after the attack by Nomad. McCoy informs him that her brain is undamaged and
she must simply "relearn" what the probe erased.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arnold Lessing   (Lt. Carlisle / Voice Of Security Guard #1)
       Barbara Gates    (Astrochemist)
       Blaisdell Makee  (Mr. Singh)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       Meade Martin     (Engineer)
       Vic Perrin       (Nomad Voice)

Written By : John Meredyth Lucas

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Apple [TOS #39]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/apple.iff
Stardate 3715.3

When a landing party beams down to the planet Gamma Trianguli VI, they find
what appears to be an idyllic paradise. They quickly discover, however, that
the planet is deadly, sporting plants that shoot thorns, rocks that explode,
and incredibly accurate lightning bolts.

With a much reduced party, they encounter the planet's inhabitants. They are a
peaceful, child-like people who call themselves the "Feeders of Vaal." They
dress in flowers and bright paint, never reproducing because they don't age or
die. Each day they "feed" Vaal offerings of food. Vaal seems to be a large,
serpent's head carved of rock, but is actually the terminal for an advanced,
underground computer. Seeing Kirk and his party as a threat, Vaal takes them
prisoner and tries to pull the U.S.S. Enterprise from orbit.

Kirk realizes that by depriving Vaal of the native's daily offerings of food,
the computer won't be able to convert the offerings into reaction mass. Thus
weakened, Kirk uses the U.S.S. Enterprise's phasers to destroy Vaal. This
leaves the natives on their own to discover birth, death, and the ways of
human life.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       Walter Koenig    (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Celeste Yarnall  (Yeoman Martha Landon)
       David Soul       (Makora)
       Dick Dial        (Lt. Kaplan)
       Jay Jones        (Lt. Mallory)
       Jerry Daniels    (Marple)
       John Winston     (Mr. Kyle)
       Keith Andes      (Akuta)
       Mal Friedman     (Ensign Hendorff)
       Shari Nims       (Sayana)

Written By : Max Ehrlich

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Mirror, Mirror [TOS #40]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/mirror.iff
Stardate Unknown

Caught in the beginnings of an ion storm, Kirk, McCoy and Uhura interrupt
their negotiations with the Halkans for dilithium crystals, to return to the
U.S.S. Enterprise. Scotty beams the landing party aboard as a burst from the
storm hits the starship. The transporter malfunctions, sending Kirk, McCoy,
Scotty and Uhura into an alternate universe. In this world, they soon discover
the "Galactic Empire" is maintained by fear and assassination. Now, aboard the
Imperial Starship Enterprise, the four must find a way to remain undetected
until they can return to their own universe.

Meanwhile, the parallel versions of Kirk, Scott, McCoy and Uhura have been
beamed on board the positive U.S.S. Enterprise. Their behavior is so different
from their counterparts that Spock immediately realizes something is wrong. He
had the four imprisoned until the transporter could be checked and repaired.

On the I.S.S. Enterprise, the parallel Chekov is foiled in an attempt to
assassinate Kirk. When Kirk refuses to give an order to destroy the Halkans,
who have refused to give up their dilithium crystals, the parallel Spock
becomes suspicious.

The Imperial Fleet sends a secret message to the parallel Spock, telling him
to kill Captain Kirk and assume command of the starship. Finding an unexpected
ally in the parallel Spock, Kirk continues to stall while his three comrades
gather the information needed to send them back to their own universe.

Parallel Spock has no desire to become captain, and therefore a mark for
assassination. Along with Lt. Marlena, who wants the parallel Kirk back
because she is "the Captain's woman," they help return the four U.S.S.
Enterprise officers to their own world. Before he goes, Kirk talks to the
bearded Spock, telling him the advantages of a Federation-like system over the
anarchy of this universe. Spock seems almost convinced that he should in fact
get rid of his Kirk, seize control of the I.S.S. Enterprise, and manipulate
the Imperial Star Fleet into working toward a more civilized universe.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Luna     (Marlena Moreau)
       Bobby Bass       (Chekov's Boy #1)
       Bob Clark        (Chekov's Boy #2)
       Garth Pillsbury  (Wilson)
       John Winston     (Computer Voice / Mr. Kyle)
       Johnny Mandell   (Sulu's Boy)
       Paul Prokop      (Guard)
       Pete Kellett     (Farrell)
       Vic Perrin       (Tharn)

Written By : Jerome Bixby

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Deadly Years [TOS #41]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/deadlyyears.iff
Stardate 3478.2

On the way to Starbase 10, the U.S.S. Enterprise stops to deliver supplies to
the colonists of Gamma Hydra IV. A landing party, consisting of Kirk, Spock,
McCoy, Lt. Galway and Chekov beam to the planet's surface. They find that
accelerated aging has taken place, killing most of the colonists. Chekov is
terrified when he discovers the first body. The only survivors, an elderly
couple who claim to be in their twenties, die shortly after meeting the U.S.S.
Enterprise crew. When the landing party returns to the U.S.S. Enterprise, the
aging acceleration begins to affect the entire crew... except Chekov, who
remains unaffected. While Kirk wants to remain in orbit around Gamma Hydra IV
until a cure can be affected, one of his passengers, Commodore Stocker, wants
to proceed to Starbase 10 where he feels the best medical aid can be found.

Each person on the U.S.S. Enterprise begins to show the effects of old age and
soon Kirk is unable to command, as are Scotty and Spock. Command falls to
Commodore Stocker, who, while an efficient desk officer, has no deep space
training. Thinking he will save time, Stocker plots a course through the
Romulan/Federation neutral zone on his way to Starbase 10. The Romulans are
waiting and begin an attack.

Stocker, panicked and inexperienced, has no idea what to do. As the U.S.S.
Enterprise is surrounded, McCoy comes up with an antidote to the aging
sickness... adrenaline. Chekov, he explains, wasn't affected because his fear
at finding the bodies on Gamma Hydra IV had already kicked his natural
adrenaline into high gear.

McCoy restores Kirk to normal in time to save the U.S.S. Enterprise by reusing
the bluff he'd tried in "The Corbomite Maneuver" and telling the Romulans that
the U.S.S. Enterprise would destroy anything within a 200.000 kilometer
radius. McCoy distributes the antidote and restores everyone to the normal
state.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Beverly Washburn  (Lt. Arlene Galway)
       Carolyn Nelson    (Yeoman Doris Atkins)
       Charles Drake     (Commodore Stocker)
       Felix Locher      (Robert Johnson)
       Laura Wood        (Elaine Johnson)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel / Computer Voice)
       Sarah Marshall    (Dr. Janet Wallace)

Written By : David P. Harmon

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡I, Mudd [TOS #42]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/imudd.iff
Stardate 4513.3

Norman, an android pretending to be a member of the U.S.S. Enterprise crew,
takes control of the starship and her crew, taking them to an unnamed planet
where Kirk discovers an old nemesis... Harry Mudd.

Fleeing from his most recent criminal exploit, Harry crash-landed on the
planet, which is inhabited by androids designed by a long-extinct race. At
first their desire to fulfill his every need seemed like paradise, but Harry
soon realized that precluded him ever leaving the planet. So, sending Norman
to capture the U.S.S. Enterprise, Mudd hoped to trade the starship's crew for
his own freedom.

The androids, however, want to use the U.S.S. Enterprise as a vehicle to
populate the universe, serving mankind and protecting them from themselves.
Unwilling to spend their lives on the strange planet, waited on by machines,
Kirk and company set about finding a way out. It is not without temptation,
however.

Spock is shown what is supposedly the control center for all the androids... a
veritable electronics dream come true. McCoy is given an extensive lab, set up
to do all the research he's ever wanted to do, while Scotty is shown the
technical machine shop of his dreams. The androids offer Uhura eternal youth
and beauty while Chekov contemplates a planet filled with beautiful young
women.

In the end, however, the crew bands together in an attempt to thoroughly
confuse and, ultimately, short-circuit them. Through a series of illogical and
very funny antics, the U.S.S. Enterprise crew and Mudd cause Norman, the
central control for all the androids, to have an electronic "nervous
breakdown."

Instead of granting Harry Mudd his freedom, Kirk leaves him on the planet with
the remaining androids... including many fashioned in the image of his
shrewish wife, Stella, until he mends his ways.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Alyce Andrece     (Alice Series #1-#250)
       Colleen Thornton  (Barbara Series)
       Kay Elliot        (Stella Mudd)
       Maureen Thornton  (Barbara Series)
       Michael Zaslow    (Ensign Jordan)
       Mike Howden       (Lt. Rowe)
       Rhae Andrece      (Alice Series #251-#500)
       Richard Tatro     (Norman)
       Roger C. Carmel   (Harcourt Fenton Mudd)
       Starr Wilson      (Maisie Series)
       Tamara Wilson     (Maisie Series)
       Ted Legarde       (Herman Series)
       Tom Legarde       (Herman Series)

Written By : Stephen Kandel

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Trouble With Tribbles [TOS #43]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/tribbles.iff
Stardate 4523.3

When the U.S.S. Enterprise receives a top priority order to protect a shipment
of quadrotriticale grain on Space Station K-7, Kirk is irritated to be
guarding a shipment of "wheat." But the shipment is meant for famine-struck
Sherman's Planet, and Klingon's are taking shore leave on the Space Station.
Adding to Kirk's irritation is Federation Undersecretary for Agriculture, Nilz
Baris and his pesty assistant, Arne Darvin who inform Kirk that Starfleet
Command is afraid the Klingon's may try to steal the grain.

Another problem arises when space trader, Cyrano Jones, gives Uhura a purring
ball of fluff known as a Tribble. Charmed by the creature, Uhura takes it back
to the U.S.S. Enterprise. However, as McCoy soon learns, Tribbles are born
pregnant and the more they eat... and they eat constantly... the more they
multiply. Soon the starship is overrun by the furry creatures.

Kirk soon finds that the bins that were once full of the precious
quadrotriticale are now full of dead Tribbles. The grain has been poisoned by
a Klingon agent disguised as the Undersecretary's assistant. He's exposed when
Kirk discovers that Tribbles don't like Klingon's (and vice versa) and squeak
whenever they're in near proximity. The Klingons leave the space station and
Scotty rids the U.S.S. Enterprise of the Tribbles by beaming them aboard the
departing Klingon ship where, as he tells Kirk, "... they'll be no tribble at
all."

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Charlie Brill      (Arne Darvin)
       David L. Ross      (Guard)
       Ed Reimers         (Admiral Fitzpatrick)
       Eddie Paskey       (Security Guard)
       Guy Raymond        (Bartender)
       Michael Pataki     (Korax)
       Paul Baxley        (Ensign Freeman)
       Stanley Adams      (Cyrano Jones)
       Whit Bissell       (Mr. Lurry)
       William Campbell   (Capt. Koloth)
       William Schallert  (Nilz Baris)

Written By : David Gerrold

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡Bread And Circuses [TOS #44]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/breadcircus.iff
Stardate 4040.7

The U.S.S. Enterprise finds the wreckage of the S.S. Beagle, with no
survivors, orbiting near the Planet 892-IV. When Kirk, Spock, and McCoy beam
to the planets surface, they find a dishelveled group of "sun worshipers"
trying to escape being caught by the local authorities. They are captured,
along with the landing party, and taken to the city which looks very much like
Earth's ancient Rome.

They find that Captain Merik of the Beagle has betrayed his crew, beaming them
down to fight in the Roman-like gladiatorial games. Merik is First Citizen of
the Empire and supposed close friend to the Proconsul, Claudius Marcus. Kirk
realizes, however, that Merik is being used as a lure to get more starship
crews to 892-IV for the entertainment of its inhabitants.

When Kirk refuses to beam his crew down to die in the arena, Spock and McCoy
are condemned to fight gladiators in the ring. The bout is being televised for
the planet's enjoyment, but Scotty cuts off the planet's energy supply,
spoiling their pleasure. When Kirk uses the confusion to free Spock and McCoy,
Merik sees how a true starship captain acts in the face of danger and uses his
communicator to have the Kirk, Spock and McCoy beamed aboard the U.S.S.
Enterprise. For his treachery, Merik is killed by the Proconsul.

Uhura, who has been monitoring the radio waves of the planet, realizes that
the "sun worshipers" aren't talking about the sun in the sky, but of the "Son
of God."

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bart LaRue        (Announcer)
       Bob Orrison       (Guard / Policeman)
       Ian Wolfe         (Septimus)
       Jack Perkins      (Master Of Games)
       Logan Ramsey      (Claudius Marcus)
       Lois Jewell       (Drusilla)
       Max Kelvin        (Archilles)
       Paul Baxley       (Policeman)
       Rhodes Reason     (Flavius)
       William Brambley  (Policeman)
       William Smithers  (Capt. R.M. Merrick)

Written By : Gene L. Coon
             Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡Journey To Babel [TOS #45]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/journeybabel.iff
Stardate 3842.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise is appointed to transport ambassadors from many worlds
to the Babel Conferences. Among those aboard are Ambassador Sarek of Vulcan
and his human wife, Amanda... Spock's parents.

Keeping peace aboard his ship is complicated for Kirk by an unidentified
vessel following the U.S.S. Enterprise and high tensions running among
delegates on board. At a cocktail party, Ambassador Gav, a Tellarite, quarrels
openly with Sarek about the admission of Coridan into the Federation. When Gav
is later murdered, circumstantial evidence points to Sarek. The strain of such
an accusation causes Sarek's already existing heart condition to worsen and he
has the Vulcan equivalent of a heart attack. McCoy battles with less familiar
Vulcan physiology to try and correct the damage. Spock is needed as a blood
donor for the operation.

When Kirk is attacked by Thelev, an Andorian, Spock assumes command of the
U.S.S. Enterprise, and refuses to participate in McCoy's operation on his
father. The Vulcan insists that they identify and stop the vessel that is
following them. Kirk fakes recovery and returns to the bridge, freeing Spock
to go to the sickbay and assist in his father's surgery. On the bridge, Kirk
must deal with the unknown ship, now in contact with someone on board the
U.S.S. Enterprise. A search uncovers the fact that Thelev is not Andorian, but
a surgically altered Orion, put on board to disrupt the Babel Conference.

The unknown ship attacks the U.S.S. Enterprise and is defeated. Rather than be
captured, it destroys itself and Thelev commits suicide. With Spock available
for the blood transfusion, Sarek's operation is a success and he recovers.
Father and son make peace, realizing they have a common bond that transcends
their differences. Kirk returns to sickbay for treatment of the knife wound
caused by Thelev and McCoy gets the last word.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Billy Curtis       (Little Copper Ambassador)
       James X. Mitchell  (Lt. Josephs)
       Jane Wyatt         (Amanda)
       John Wheeler       (Gav)
       Majel Barrett      (Christine Chapel)
       Mark Lenard        (Sarek)
       Reggie Nalder      (Shras)
       William O'Connell  (Thelev)

Written By : D.C. Fontana

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡A Private Little War [TOS #46]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/privatewar.iff
Stardate 4211.4

Captain Kirk leads a survey mission to a peaceful, primitive planet which he
visited 13 years before as a lieutenant. He is dismayed to see a group of
villagers armed with flintlocks, weapons they shouldn't have at their current
stage of development. The villagers ambush the landing party and wound Spock.
Returning to the Enterprise, Spock is put under the care of Dr. M'Benga, who
once interned in a Vulcan ward. M'Benga tells McCoy they've done all they can
for Spock, and that he has to recover on his own.

Meanwhile, a Klingon vessel is detected in orbit around the planet, and Kirk
orders Chekov to keep the Enterprise out of sensor range while he returns to
the surface. He'll be looking for Tyree, the tribal leader he befriended years
earlier. Minutes after Kirk and McCoy beam down in native clothing, they are
attacked by a mugato, a white apelike creature with poisonous fangs, who bites
Kirk before McCoy can kill it with a phaser. They can't return to the
Enterprise, so Kirk tells McCoy that Tyree's people have a cure for the mugato
poison.

Some hill people find Kirk and McCoy and take them to their caves, informing
them that Tyree is now their leader, and his wife, Nona, knows how to help
Kirk. But Tyree and Nona are currently on a scouting mission. Nona is using
drugs to keep Tyree devoted to her, and she urges him to acquire "firesticks"
for their people, but being a devoted pacifist, he refuses. Informed about
Kirk, Nona heads back to the caves, where she sees McCoy using his phaser to
heat some rocks. Nona is intrigued, and wants to know more about their guests.
Nona treats Kirk by cutting her hand and pressing a mahko root against Kirk's
wound. She collapses but Kirk recovers. Now, according to legend, Kirk will be
unable to refuse Nona anything.

Meanwhile, on the Enterprise, Dr. M'Benga has informed Nurse Chapel that Spock
is in a state of self-induced hypnosis to heal his own injuries. When Spock's
readings fluctuate, M'Benga is pleased, and tells Chapel that if Spock regains
consciousness she is to do whatever the Vulcan asks.

Tyree tells Kirk and McCoy that the firesticks first appeared nearly a year
ago, but assumes the villagers have been making them - he hasn't seen any
strangers. Kirk asks him to take them to the village under cover of dark. Nona
joins them and implores Kirk to help make Tyree a powerful man, but the
captain says he will not interfere.

Tyree leads Kirk and McCoy into the village, where they find a forge
containing clear evidence that Klingons are involved. They watch in hiding as
the villager's leader, Apella, enters with a Klingon. Kirk and McCoy overpower
them, take a flintlock and escape with Tyree's help.

Spock regains partial consciousness and demands that Chapel strike him. She
does so hesitantly at first, but at Spock's insistence she slaps him harder
and harder, until Scotty walks in and stops her, not knowing he's endangering
Spock by doing this. M'Benga finds out what's happening, rushes over and slaps
Spock violently until he is fully conscious. Spock thanks him for bringing him
out of his hypnotic state.

On the planet, Kirk teaches Tyree and his people how to fire the stolen
flintlock. McCoy points out that he is corrupting the hill people's society,
but Kirk replies that the Klingons left them no choice - in order to bring
equity back between the hill people and the villagers, he has to provide equal
weapons. McCoy is horrified, but has no alternative solution. Realizing Tyree
is hesitant to arm him people, Kirk hopes that Nona can convince her husband
to fight. When he approaches her, she uses the same drug on him that she used
to seduce Tyree. Kirk falls under her spell. Tyree sees what's happening and
aims the flintlock at his wife, but he cannot bring himself to shoot. He
throws the weapon away in disgust and walks off.

Suddenly, a mugato attacks Kirk and Nona. After a struggle, Kirk is forced to
destroy the creature with his phaser. Seeing her opportunity, Nona knocks Kirk
out and takes the phaser. Tyree and McCoy find Kirk and revive him, while Nona
runs into a patrol of villagers and offers them victory by using Kirk's
phaser. But the villagers attack and kill her. Tyree and Kirk rush in and
overpower the villagers. When Tyree learns that Nona is dead he takes up the
rifle and tells Kirk he needs more weapons. McCoy retrieves Kirk's phaser, and
Spock contacts them from the ship. Kirk orders Scotty to manufacture a hundred
flintlocks - they are making serpents for the Garden of Eden.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arthur Bernard   (Apella)
       Booker Bradshaw  (Dr. M'Benga)
       Gary Pillar      (Yutan)
       Janos Prohaska   (The Mugato)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       Michael Whitney  (Tyree)
       Nancy Kovack     (Nona)
       Ned Romero       (Krell)
       Paul Baxley      (Patrol Leader)

Teleplay By : Gene Roddenberry

Story By : Jud Crucis

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡The Gamesters Of Triskelion [TOS #47]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/gamesters.iff
Stardate 3211.7

During a routine transport to a planet, Captain Kirk, Lieutenant Uhura and
Ensign Chekov are intercepted and abducted by a powerful and distant
transporter beam. Arriving, literally, flat on their backs on a planet called
Triskelion in the M-24 Alpha star system, the are immediately attacked by
beings from several different species, each of them wearing a collar around
their necks.

Kirk and his crew mates have been brought to this planet to fight as
gladiators in combat games in order to entertain and provide exciting gambling
for the disembodied entities called "The Providers." Each assigned a "drill
thrall" of their own, Kirk and his companions are collared as well, which
asphyxiate those who are disobedient to The Providers.

On board the U.S.S. Enterprise, Spock, aware that the crew members are
missing, attempts to locate them, and eventually finds the origin of the beam.
Upon its arrival, the crew of the starship is also taken captive by The
Providers.

With the ship and his entire crew at stake, Kirk makes a final wager to The
Providers which they cannot resist: himself against three drill thralls on the
condition that if he wins, all the drill thralls go free and are taught how to
live for themselves again. If Kirk fails, he promises himself and the entire
crew as the most entertaining fighters ever seen.

Kirk beats the three drill thralls and wins the wager, and The Providers set
all the thralls free and permit the U.S.S. Enterprise and her crew to leave
also.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Angelique Pettyjohn  (Shahna)
       Bob Johnson          (Voice Of Provider #1)
       Dick Crockett        (Andorian Thrall)
       Jane Ross            (Tamoon)
       Joseph Ruskin        (Galt)
       Mickey Morton        (Kloog)
       Steve Sandor         (Lars)
       Victoria George      (Ensign Jana Haines)

Written By : Margaret Armen

Directed By : Gene Nelson
¡Obsession [TOS #48]
1967048*o*Data/STOS/obsession.iff
Stardate 3619.2

Eleven years ago, the U.S.S. Farragut encountered a deadly cloud creature with
vampire-like tendencies. James T. Kirk was on board the Farragut at that time
as they entered the region of Tycho IV. The creature killed the ship's
captain, Captain Garrovick, and half the crew by draining their red blood
cells. To this day, Kirk feels guilt at having hesitated before firing at the
creature... even though his phaser blast had no effect.

On his way to deliver necessary medical supplies, Kirk encounters what he
believes is the same blood-sucking entity. He pursues it, against orders,
determine to destroy it before it kills again.

A landing party beams down to the surface of Argus X, where the creature has
taken refuge. In the party is the son of Kirk's former captain... Ensign
Garrovick. Garrovick spies the creature and, like Kirk eleven years before,
hesitates before firing. The creature escapes and Kirk blames Garrovick for
the resulting death of a crewman.

The creature leaves the planet with the U.S.S. Enterprise in pursuit. When
Kirk fires on it, the creature turns and enters the starship. Fortunately, its
first victim is Spock and, after tasting the copper-based blood, flees toward
its home world, Tycho IV. Fearing the creature will reproduce and, at the very
least, kill others, Kirk and Garrovick prepare a trap with a matter/antimatter
bomb and human blood. The lure the creature to take the bait and beam aboard
the U.S.S. Enterprise as the creature is killed in the resulting explosion.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Eddie Paskey    (Mr. Leslie)
       Jerry Ayres     (Ensign Rizzo)
       Majel Barrett   (Christine Chapel)
       Stephen Brooks  (Ensign Garrovick)

Written By : Art Wallace

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡The Immunity Syndrome [TOS #49]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/immunity.iff
Stardate 4307.1

The Enterprise is en route to Starbase 6 for shore leave when Uhura receives a
jumbled message from which all she can make out is a sector coordinate and the
name U.S.S. Intrepid, a starship manned entirely by Vulcans. Suddenly, Spock
shudders with pain and reports that the Intrepid just "died."

Kirk gets orders to head to Sector 39J because all contact has been lost with
solar system Gamma 7A and with the Intrepid, which was investigating it. As
the Enterprise changes course, long-range sensors show that the solar system,
and its billions of people, are dead.

Approaching its destination, the Enterprise encounters a strange dark area in
space. Kirk launches a probe. Seconds later, the crew hears a high-pitched
whine throughout the ship, rendering half the people on board ill, and causing
some to faint. Spock speculates that the phenomenon is some form of energy
that is probably responsible for the death of the system inhabitants and the
Intrepid crew. Kirk decides to move closer, and the crew hears the whine
again. This time when they recover, the stars seem to have vanished. Spock
reports that the noise was produced when the Enterprise passed through a
boundary layer, and that they are surrounded by a field that is draining their
mechanical and biological energy. McCoy confirms this when he reports from
sickbay that everyone on the ship is dying.

Attempts by Scotty to recalibrate the engines and break free from the dark
zone fail, and in fact the ship's expenditure of energy attracts an enormous
amoeba-like creature approximately 11,000 miles in length. McCoy identifies
the creature as an incredibly simple, single-celled organism which feeds on
energy, but he needs more data to save the ship. He and Spock each volunteer
to take a shuttle to investigate the creature - what would most certainly be
a suicide mission - and Kirk decides to send Spock.

Spock takes the shuttlecraft through the creature's membrane and moves toward
its nucleus. He reports that the creature appears to be ready to reproduce. He
loses voice contact but manages to continue transmitting data.

Kirk and McCoy determine that if the creature begins to reproduce, it will
spread rapidly and pose a serious threat to the galaxy, so it must be
destroyed. But the Enterprise only has enough power left to survive for an
hour.

Kirk and McCoy realize they have to use the Enterprise as an "antibody." Kirk
orders the ship to punch its way into the giant creature and set a course for
the nucleus. An antimatter charge is attached to a probe with a seven-minute
delay. As soon as it is lodged in the nucleus, the Enterprise backs away at
full impulse. There are only a few seconds to spare, but then they detect
Spock's shuttle. Kirk locks two tractor beams onto the shuttle, even though
doing so delays their escape. But when the antimatter explosion ruptures the
creature's membrane, both ships are thrown to safety.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : John Winston   (Mr. Kyle)
       Majel Barrett  (Christine Chapel)

Story By : Robert Sabaroff

Directed By : Joseph Pevney
¡A Piece Of The Action [TOS #50]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/pieceaction.iff
Stardate 4598.0

The planet Iotia's last visit by the Federation was by the U.S.S. Horizon... a
hundred years before. Realizing the lapse in monitoring the planet, the
Federation sends the U.S.S. Enterprise to observe the progress of Iotia's
population.

Beaming down to the planet's surface, Kirk, Spock and McCoy are surprised to
see a much different society - an Earth-like 1920s gangster culture - than
was reported by the U.S.S. Horizon crew. Bodily seized, the landing crew are
taken before one of the major planetary leaders, mobster Bela Oxmyx. Wishing
to unite the population under his rule, Bela offers Kirk "a piece of the
action" in exchange for the technologically advanced weapons of the U.S.S.
Enterprise.

Meanwhile, the other lead gangster, Jojo Krako, has his own idea about being
the head mobster and captures the Enterprise officers. Struggling to gain the
upper hand in this comical power struggle, Kirk creates a diversion... a
little card game known as Fizzbin. Without knowing the nuances of the culture,
Kirk and Spock try to accomplish their mission when Kirk attempts to drive a
car and Spock strives to speak in gangster slang.

Finally, Bela Oxmyx is given a display of the Federation's power when he is
beamed aboard the Enterprise and held hostage in the transporter room.
Arranging a meeting between the two antagonists, Kirk is successful in uniting
the two gangs in a loose system of government with the Federation as
Godfather... for a piece of the action, of course. Furthermore, upon
discovering a book - "Chicago Mobs of the Twenties" - the U.S.S. Horizon
crew left behind 100 years before, Kirk and Spock finally understand how the
highly imitative Iotians reinvented their entire society.

Back aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, Kirk notices McCoy unusually drawn and
worried. When questioned, McCoy is forced to admit that he thinks he left his
communicator on Iotia, leaving him to wonder what type of planetary society
the next Federation visit will find...

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Anthony Caruso     (Bela Oxmyx)
       Bill Blackburn     (Lt. Hadley)
       Buddy Garion       (Hood)
       Christie           (Hood)
       Conte              (Hood)
       Dyanne Thorne      (Girl #1)
       Jay Jones          (Mirt)
       John Harmon        (Tepo)
       Lee Delano         (Kalo)
       Marlys Burdette    (Krako's Gun Moll)
       McIntosh           (Hood)
       Sharyn Hillyer     (Girl #2)
       Sheldon Collins    (Tough Kid)
       Steve Marlo        (Zabo)
       Victor Tayback     (Jojo Krako)

Teleplay By : David P. Harmon
              Gene L. Coon

Story By : David P. Harmon

Directed By : James Komack
¡By Any Other Name [TOS #51]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/anyothername.iff
Stardate 4657.5

When the U.S.S. Enterprise answers a distress call from a small planet, the
landing party is captured by a group of agents from the Kelvan empire, located
in the distant Andromeda galaxy. The Kelvans' purpose is to find planets
suitable for colonization. However, their own ship was destroyed and now they
need the Enterprise to make the three hundred year journey home. To utilize
the starship, the Kelvans - huge, tentacled creatures - take on human form.
After several attempts at escape, Kirk accepts his fate and agrees to let the
aliens take over his ship. The Kelvans use their technology to transform all
but essential Enterprise personnel into small "cubes" which, unless broken or
damaged, can be restored to human beings.

Recognizing that the Kelvans, in their new human bodies, are discovering human
sensation and emotion, the remaining crew attempts to foster dissent among the
aliens: Scotty succeeds in gettting one of them drunk, McCoy injects an
irritant into another, and Kirk makes romantic overtures to the Kelvan
leader's woman. With the Kelvans thus distracted, Kirk and the crew are able
to regain control of the ship.

Kirk points out to Rojan, the Kelvan leader, that the Kelvans are already
becoming less like they were before by encountering the humans. In three
hundred years, their descendants will be so human-like that they won't be able
to live among their people on Kelva. Rojan sees the logic in his argument and
sends a robot probe to Kelva, reporting what has happened. Pledging to restore
the Enterprise crew, Rojan accepts Kirk's offer that the Enterprise find the
Kelvans a Class M planet to colonize.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Bouchet  (Kelinda)
       Carl Byrd        (Lt. Shea)
       Julie Cobb       (Yeoman Leslie Thompson)
       Lezlie Dalton    (Drea)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       Robert Fortier   (Tomar)
       Stewart Moss     (Hanar)
       Warren Stevens   (Rojan)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana
              Jerome Bixby

Story By : Jerome Bixby

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Return To Tomorrow [TOS #52]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/returntom.iff
Stardate 4768.3

The Enterprise tracks a mysterious SOS to an ancient planet presumed long
dead. The crew hears a voice from a telepathic being named Sargon, who asks
Kirk to beam down to the surface. When Kirk, Spock and McCoy arrive in the
transporter room, they find that Dr. Ann Mulhall has also been summoned.
Sargon operates the transporter and leaves the security guards behind.

The landing party finds themselves in a vault, and encounters a glowing sphere
that identifies itself as Sargon. He explains that his people were destroyed
in a cataclysmic war half a million years ago, and that he once had a body,
but now is only pure thought. Sargon insists that he and two others of his
kind need to "borrow" the bodies of the Enterprise officers long enough to
construct new artificial ones. Sargon briefly takes control of Kirk's body,
and leads the landing party into another chamber holding two rows of spheres,
which are all now dark except for two. Those two beings are Sargon's wife,
Thalassa, and his former enemy, Henoch. Sargon explains that this is how they
stored their minds after the war, laying in wait for someone to find them. But
by now Kirk's body is weakening, so Sargon returns control to the captain.

Scotty beams the three receptacles aboard and McCoy monitors the transfer
process in Sickbay. Sargon takes Kirk's body, Thalassa takes Mulhall's, and
Henoch takes Spock's. They are all overwhelmed by the pleasure of having
physical bodies after so many years. Almost immediately, though, Henoch plots
to kill Sargon in Kirk's body. While Sargon leads the effort to build androids
for them to occupy, Henoch attempts to lure Thalassa into agreeing that they
should keep their host bodies.

Henoch telepathically forces Nurse Chapel to poison Sargon (in Kirk's body)
and then destroys the globe that houses Spock's mind. McCoy and Nurse Chapel
keep Kirk's body on life support, but his mind is still trapped in Sargon's
receptacle. Henoch has completed an artificial body for Thalassa, but she
refuses to transfer her consciousness into it. Instead, she goes to sickbay
and offers McCoy a chance to save Kirk in return for keeping the human body.
McCoy refuses, so she attacks him with her thoughts. But then she realizes
what she's doing and breaks off her assault. Suddenly, she and McCoy hear
Sargon's voice - he transferred his mind into the ship's computer, and he has
a plan. Chapel arrives, and Thalassa orders McCoy out of the room. The room
shakes, and a few seconds later Chapel walks out. When McCoy rushes back in,
he finds Kirk and Mulhall restored to normal, and all the receptacles
destroyed. Kirk orders McCoy to prepare a hypo with a deadly
injection - Spock's mind is now dead, so now they must destroy Henoch.

By now Henoch has taken control of the Enterprise. On the bridge, McCoy
attempts to inject him, but Henoch stops him and orders Nurse Chapel to inject
the Doctor. She takes the hypo, but injects Spock's body instead. Henoch tries
to move to another body, but Sargon stops him, and he falls to the floor.
Chapel staggers, and Spock stands up. It turns out that Spock's consciousness
had been transferred into Chapel's body, and that the injection wasn't really
deadly - Sargon had manipulated the Doctor to believe it was because Henoch
could read McCoy's thoughts.

Sargon and Thalassa realize that they cannot live in the physical world, but
before they depart to roam the universe in their noncorporeal state, they
inhabit Kirk's and Mulhall's bodies one last time so they can share a kiss.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Cindy Lou       (Nurse)
       Diana Muldaur   (Dr. Ann Mulhall)
       Eddie Paskey    (Security Guard)
       James Doohan    (Voice Of Sargon)
       Majel Barrett   (Christine Chapel)
       Roger Holloway  (Mr. Lemli)

Written By : John Kingsbridge

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡Patterns Of Force [TOS #53]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/patternsforce.iff
Stardate 2534.0

The U.S.S. Enterprise investigates the disappearance of an old Academy
professor of Kirk's - John Gill. Kirk and Spock discover that Gill had "gone
native" and violated the Prime Directive by patterning the planet of Ekos
after Nazi Germany prior to World War II. It was Gill's belief that, under the
right direction, this type of patriotism could be used to positive purpose in
the advancement of the planet's culture. The results turn out to be disastrous
- the Ekosian people turn on their neighbors, the Zeons, and place John Gill
in the role of the Fuhrer! When Kirk and Spock reveal a power- seeking Ekosian
has been controlling Gill, they are able to help him recall a large scale
attack and begin the process of restoring peace to both cultures.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bart LaRue          (Newscaster)
       Bill Blackburn      (Trooper)
       Chuck Courtney      (Davod)
       David Brian         (John Gill)
       Ed McCready         (SS Trooper)
       Gilbert Green       (SS Major)
       Laskey              (Trooper)
       Patrick Horgan      (Eneg)
       Paul Baxley         (Trooper #1)
       Peter Canon         (Gestapo Lt.)
       Ralph Maurer        (SS Lt.)
       Richard Evans       (Isak)
       Skip Homeier        (Melakon)
       Valora Noland       (Daras)
       William Wintersole  (Abrom)

Written By : John Meredyth Lucas

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡The Ultimate Computer [TOS #54]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/ultcomp.iff
Stardate 4729.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise is chosen to be the test ship for the new M-5
Multitronic computer system, a computer meant to be able to run a starship
without human intervention. Also aboard for the test is Doctor Richard
Daystrom, the inventor of the M-5 and an obsessive and unstable individual.

Initially the M-5 performs well, but when it decides to destroy a robot
freighter, Kirk orders the test canceled. M-5, however, protects itself and
makes it impossible for it to be disconnected. The computer becomes
increasingly erratic, a result of Dr. Daystrom's decision to impress his
engram onto the computer as part of its programming. Starting a scheduled war
games drill, M-5 uses the full arsenal of the U.S.S. Enterprise to attack four
other Federation starships.

In a last-ditch appeal to M-5, Kirk makes the computer realize that it has
committed the sin of murder. Since Dr. Daystrom would be ethically abhorred at
such an act, M-5 is equally penitent and tries to commit suicide by leaving
the U.S.S. Enterprise defenseless against a counter-attack by the remaining
other starships. At the last moment, Spock and Scott are able to finish
disconnecting M-5. Kirk keeps the shields down, gambling successfully that the
attacking ships would not fire on an undefended vessel. Restoring
communications next, the fleet is called off.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barry Russo       (Commodore Robert Wesley)
       James Doohan      (M-5 Computer Voice / Voice Of Commodore Enwright)
       Sean Morgan       (Ensign Harper)
       William Marshall  (Dr. Richard Daystrom)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana

Story By : Laurence N. Wolfe

Directed By : John Meredyth Lucas
¡The Omega Glory [TOS #55]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/omegaglory.iff
Stardate Unknown

The U.S.S. Enterprise finds a crewless starship, the U.S.S. Exeter, in orbit
around the planet Omega IV. The boarding party from the U.S.S. Enterprise
contracts a virus that may have killed the Exeter's crew, but the biosphere on
Omega IV is found to contain an immunity. The party is beamed to the surface.

There they discover Captain Tracey, the commander of the U.S.S. Exeter. He has
been violating the Federation's Prime Directive by interfering in the politics
of the natives, using his phaser to protect the Oriental villagers, the Kohms,
against the barbarian raiders, the Yangs. Tracey demands that Kirk supply him
with more phasers, which Kirk refuses to do.

The Yangs capture the Kohms village and the U.S.S. Enterprise crew learns that
these people are possibly descendants of Earth's Communist Chinese who left
Earth in the last years of the 20th Century. The Yangs mouth a distorted
version of the United States Constitution, which are their 'holy words' and
which Kirk recites, gaining their confidence. Prolonged exposure to the
planet's atmosphere cures the landing party and, with Captain Tracey under
arrest, they return to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : David L. Ross    (Lt. Galloway)
       Ed McCready      (Dr. Carter)
       Eddie Paskey     (Mr. Leslie)
       Frank Atienza    (Kohm Villager)
       Irene Kelly      (Sirah)
       Lloyd Kino       (Wu)
       Morgan Farley    (Old Yang Scholar)
       Morgan Woodward  (Capt. Ronald Tracey)
       Roy Jenson       (Cloud William)

Written By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡Assignment: Earth [TOS #56]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/assignearth.iff
Stardate Unknown

Sent back in time to find out how Earth managed to survive without destroying
itself, the U.S.S. Enterprise inadvertently beams aboard a space traveler,
Gary Seven, along with his black cat, Isis. Seven claims to be a twentieth
century Terran raised and trained by unknown and unnamed aliens to prevent
Earth from destroying itself. Before Kirk can determine whether or not the man
is telling the truth, Seven escapes to the planet below. Kirk and Spock follow
him to Earth. Meanwhile, Seven has tried to contact two fellow agents, who are
discovered to have recently died in an auto accident. Instead, he contacts
Roberta Lincoln, who becomes his reluctant cohort.

An orbital bomb is about to be launched by the United States and it is Seven's
mission to make sure the rocket explodes somewhere over Asia, thereby
frightening the governments into not launching future bombs into space.

When the rocket goes out of control, Seven barely succeeds in stopping it,
despite Kirk and Spock's well-meaning interference. Before Kirk and Spock
leave Earth, Kirk consults the Enterprise's computer records and informs Seven
and Roberta that they have a very interesting future in the offing.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Babcock  (Exciever Computer Voice  / Voice Of Isis)
       Bruce Mars       (Policeman #1)
       Don Keefer       (Mr. Cromwell)
       Eddie Paskey     (Mr. Leslie)
       Lincoln Demyan   (Sergeant Lipton)
       Majel Barrett    (Beta 5 Computer Voice)
       Morgan Jones     (Col. Nesvig)
       Paul Baxley      (Crewman McKinley)
       Robert Lansing   (Gary Seven)
       Ted Gehring      (Policeman #2)
       Terri Garr       (Roberta Lincoln)

Teleplay By : Art Wallace

Story By : Art Wallace
           Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Spectre Of The Gun [TOS #57]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/spectregun.iff
Stardate 4385.3

Kirk ignores an alien buoy that warns the U.S.S. Enterprise that it is
trespassing into Melkotian space and continues forward when the Melkots
transport Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, and Chekov to a recreation of Earth's
wild west. Here their instruments will not function and they are forced to
relive, in "a manner befitting their heritage for trespassing," the shoot-out
in Tombstone, Arizona on October 26, 1881.

The U.S.S. Enterprise party is transported to the OK Corral, but as they will
not fire on the "Earps," the gunfighters cannot hurt them. Chekov, in the role
of Billy Clanton, is killed and Spock realizes that these events are not
really transpiring. Through a series of mind melds, Spock is able to reject
the illusions of the hostiles enabling the crew to succeed without shooting at
the others. The Melkots are impressed by the peaceful behavior of the U.S.S.
Enterprise party and return them, including Chekov, who had been killed in an
earlier altercation, to the U.S.S. Enterprise. The Melkots agree to establish
contact with the Federation.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Abraham Sofaer   (Voice Of The Melkotian)
       Bill Zuckert     (Johnny Behan)
       Bob Orrison      (Man In Bar)
       Bonnie Beecher   (Sylvia)
       Charles Maxwell  (Virgil Earp)
       Charles Seel     (Ed)
       Ed McCready      (Barber)
       Greg Palmer      (Rancher)
       Gregory Reece    (Man In Bar)
       James Doohan     (Melkotian Warning Buoy Voice)
       Mike Manor       (Mask)
       Paul Baxley      (Man In Bar)
       Rex Holman       (Morgan Earp)
       Richard Anthony  (Rider)
       Ron Soble        (Wyatt Earp)
       Sam Gilman       (Doc Holliday)

Written By : Lee Cronin

Directed By : Vincent McEveety
¡Elaan Of Troyius [TOS #58]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/elaan.iff
Stardate 4372.5

Two United Federation of Planets members, Elas and Troyius, suffered war for
centuries. With Klingon Empire expansion approaching the planets' system,
Tellun, the Federation sends the U.S.S. Enterprise to lend assistance in a
peace negotiation. The peace treaty is to be completed by the bonding in
marriage of the two planets' leaders, the Dohlman of Elas and the leader of
Troyius. The Starship provides transport for the Dohlman to Troyius, while
also offering a time and place for the Dohlman to learn the duties and customs
of Troyius.

Upon her arrival on the U.S.S. Enterprise, it is clear that the Dohlman,
Elaan, is an arrogant and reluctant bride. Ambassador Petri from Troyius
attempts to educate Elaan in preparation of her wedding, but is rewarded with
a knife wound. Captain Kirk must step in as Elaan's tutor to insure that the
alliance takes place. Kirk takes a strong hand in Elaan's education, but his
efforts are compromised when she begins to cry and he touches one of her
tears. The Elasian tears of a Dohlman carry an infectious agent which acts as
a powerful aphrodisiac.

While the captain fights the effects of Elaan's tears, a Klingon battlecruiser
appears. In the ensuing melee, it is apparent that the Klingon captain is
attempting to lure the starship into warp speed which, as Scotty soon
discovers, would destroy the ship. A saboteur from the Elasian party has
damaged the dilithium crystal chamber, rendering the crystal inert, and the
ship nearly powerless.

While under attack, Spock detects strong energy readings which emanate from a
crystal necklace of Elaan's - made of dilithium. Fitting the raw crystals
into the anti-matter chamber, the ship is able to fend off the Klingons and
continue to Troyius. Kirk and McCoy discover the one true cure for the Elasian
tears - prior infection - in Kirk's case, the starship Enterprise had
infected him even more powerfully than had the Dohlman.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Charles Beck   (Elasian Guard #2)
       Dick Durock    (Elasian Guard #1)
       France Nuyen   (Elaan)
       Jay Robinson   (Petri)
       K.L. Smith     (Klingon)
       Lee Duncan     (Crewman Evans)
       Majel Barrett  (Christine Chapel)
       Tony Young     (Kryton)
       Victor Brandt  (Technician Watson)

Story By : John Meredyth Lucas

Directed By : John Meredyth Lucas
¡The Paradise Syndrome [TOS #59]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/paradise.iff
Stardate 4842.6

Investigating a planet in danger of collision with an asteroid, Captain Kirk,
Mr. Spock, and Doctor McCoy discover both Native American inhabitants and a
strange alien obelisk. While examining the obelisk, Kirk is accidentally
trapped inside. Trying to escape, he inadvertently triggers a device that
gives him amnesia.

Unable to locate the Captain, Spock and McCoy return to the U.S.S. Enterprise
to try and stop the asteroid from hitting the planet.

Now free from the obelisk, Kirk is found by the natives, who come to believe
Kirk (calling himself Kirok with his damaged memory) is a god. Kirk both
becomes the tribe's medicine chief and marries the priestess Miramanee.

Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise fails in its attempt to destroy the asteroid.
Spock is able, however, to translate the obelisk's carvings. He learns that an
alien race known as the Preservers transplanted the Indians to this world, and
provided an asteroid deflector inside the obelisk to protect them.

Returning to planetary orbit, Spock and McCoy beam down. They find the
natives, frightened that Kirk does not know how to use the obelisk to protect
them, stoning Kirk and Miramanee. Rescuing the pair and restoring Kirk's
memory, Kirk and Spock enter the obelisk and activate the deflector. The
planet is saved but Miramanee, pregnant with Kirk's child, dies from her
injuries.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       Walter Koenig    (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : John Lindesmith   (Engineer)
       Lamont Laird      (Indian Boy)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel)
       Naomi Pollack     (Indian Woman)
       Peter Virgo, Jr.  (Lumo)
       Richard Hale      (Goro)
       Rudy Solari       (Salish)
       Sabrina Scharf    (Miramanee)
       Sean Morgan       (Engineer)

Written By : Margaret Armen

Directed By : Jud Taylor
¡The Enterprise Incident [TOS #60]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/enterprise.iff
Stardate 5027.3

Seeming tense and erratic, Captain Kirk takes the U.S.S. Enterprise into
Romulan space and the ship is immediately surrounded by Romulan warships. Kirk
and Spock beam aboard the Romulan flag-ship and confront the Romulan
Commander, a woman. Kirk explains that his ship entered Romulan territory
because of equipment malfunction. Spock, however, denounces this explanation,
saying Kirk ordered them here, due to his reduced mental stability. This, not
surprisingly, enrages the Captain. The Romulan Commander orders the U.S.S.
Enterprise be taken to the Romulan base. Scotty, placed in command of the
starship, refuses. McCoy is beamed aboard the flag-ship to tend Kirk, who has
become irrational to the point of violence. When he arrives, Kirk attacks
Spock who reacts, without thinking, by using the Vulcan death grip, killing
Kirk.

McCoy returns to the U.S.S. Enterprise with Kirk's body, while Spock remains
on the Romulan ship. Unknown to the Romulan Commander, this has all been a
ploy to sneak the officers on board and steal the Romulan cloaking device.
After Kirk's body has been removed to his ship, the Romulan Commander begins
to try and entice Spock into defecting to the Romulan side.

Disguised as a Romulan, Kirk returns to the Romulan ship and steals the
vessel's cloaking device and returns with it to the U.S.S. Enterprise. When
the Commander discovers the theft, she feels betrayed and in retaliation
decides to execute Spock. The Vulcan pretends to confess to her and ultimately
stalls until Scotty is able to install the cloaking device on board the U.S.S.
Enterprise. Spock is beamed back aboard the starship, but since the Romulan
Commander was standing near him, she is also beamed aboard.

The Romulan Subcommander, now in charge of the flag-ship, gives chase, ordered
by his commander to destroy the Federation ship. Fortunately, the
newly-installed cloaking device works and the U.S.S. Enterprise makes good her
escape, with the Romulan Commander on board as their prisoner.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Gordon Coffey    (Romulan Soldier)
       Jack Donner      (Romulan Subcmdr. Tal)
       Joanne Linville  (Romulan Cmdr.)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       Mike Howden      (Romulan Guard)
       Richard Compton  (Romulan Technical Officer)
       Robert Gentile   (Romulan Technician)

Written By : D.C. Fontana

Directed By : John Meredyth Lucas
¡And The Children Shall Lead [TOS #61]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/childrenlead.iff
Stardate 5029.5

When the U.S.S. Enterprise finds that all the adults in the Starnes expedition
to Triacus have killed themselves, they beam to the planet's surface to
investigate. The children, however, are alive and well and strangely oblivious
to their parents' fates.

They are beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise while Kirk searches for an answer
to the strange occurrences. The children summon their "friendly angel" Gorgan,
who tells them to take the U.S.S. Enterprise to a planet he can control. By
garbling Kirk's words and deceiving Spock, the children are able to take
control of the starship. Finally, seeing Kirk's anxiety at the loss of his
ship, Spock realizes that something is wrong and helps the Captain regain
control.

Kirk shows the children tricorder tapes of their parents... and their graves,
demonstrating to them that Gorgan is not a "friendly angel" but an evil force.
The loss of his believers renders Gorgan impotent and he fades into oblivion.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Brian Tochi        (Ray Tsingtao)
       Caesar Belli       (Steve O'Connell)
       Craig Hundley      (Tommy Starnes)
       Dick Dial          (Techician #2)
       Eddie Paskey       (Mr. Leslie)
       James Wellman      (Professor Starnes)
       Lou Elias          (Technician #1)
       Majel Barrett      (Christine Chapel)
       Mark Robert Brown  (Don Linden)
       Melvin Belli       (Gorgan)
       Pamelyn Ferdin     (Mary Janowski)

Written By : Edward J. Lakso

Directed By : Marvin Chomsky
¡Spock's Brain [TOS #62]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/spocksbrain.iff
Stardate 5431.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise is on a routine mission in deep space when a beautiful
young woman beams onto the bridge. Without a word, she touches a band on her
wrist and everyone is rendered unconscious. She moves around the bridge until
finally she comes to Spock. Smiling, she lays a hand on the Vulcan's head, as
if she's found what she was looking for.

When Kirk awakes, Spock is gone from the bridge. Before the captain can find
out where his first officer has gone, McCoy calls, demanding his presence in
sickbay immediately. Spock's body lays on a diagnostic table, on full life
support. McCoy explains that his brain is gone... miraculously removed with
some technology that the doctor has never seen before. Every nerve was sealed
and there was no blood lost. However, McCoy tells him if the Vulcan's brain
isn't returned to his body within 24 hours, Spock will die.

Kirk orders the starship in pursuit of the woman's ship. By following their
ion trail, the Enterprise arrives at the sixth planet in the Sigma Draconis
system. When Kirk and party beam down, they find a rough, frozen world
inhabited by two peoples: the Morgs, who are comprised solely of men, who live
on the surface in a primitive culture, and the Eymorgs, an all female group
who live deep under the planet's surface. While the Eymorgs live in a highly
technological society, they don't understand that technology and are trained
to perform various tasks - like the operation enabling them to steal Spock's
brain - by what is known as "The Great Teacher." This "teacher" was left behind
by ancient technologists who once lived on the planet.

McCoy, having fashioned a device which will control Spock's body without the
aid of his brain, beams down with the Vulcan to join Kirk and his party. They
find Kara, the woman who beamed aboard the Enterprise. They quickly realize
that Kara doesn't have the skill or knowledge to have performed the operation
on Spock, and she tells them about "The Great Teacher."

Finally, Kirk finds Spock's brain. The Eymorgs have hooked it up to run their
central control system. The brain is now revered as "The Controller," which
they hope will control their central systems for the next ten thousand years.
After trying unsuccessfully to get Kara to repeat the operation on Spock in
reverse, McCoy submits to "The Great Teacher" device and gains the knowledge
needed to restore Spock's brain and save the Vulcan's life.

Without their Controller, the Eymorgs fear for their existence. Kirk suggests
they share their greater knowledge with the Morgs and live together on the
surface.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Daris      (Creature)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel)
       Marj Dusay       (Kara)
       Sheila Leighton  (Luma)

Written By : Lee Cronin

Directed By : Marc Daniels
¡Is There In Truth No Beauty? [TOS #63]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/truthbeauty.iff
Stardate 5630.7

In an attempt to adapt Medusan technology to Federation use, and vice versa,
the U.S.S. Enterprise picks up Medusan ambassador Kollos, instrument
specialist Lawrence Marvick and telepath Dr. Miranda Jones. The Medusans have
a great beauty of character, but their physical appearance causes shock to the
point of insanity in humanoids.

When Dr. Jones turns down her co-worker, Lawrence Marvick's, proposal of
marriage in favor of staying with Kollos, Marvick tries unsuccessfully to kill
Kollos. Instead, he is driven insane by a glimpse of the Medusan. He takes
over the U.S.S. Enterprise engines, which he helped design, and drives the
ship out of the galaxy into an indeterminate region. The crew experiences
acute sensory distortion and Marvick finally dies.

While the crew cannot pilot the starship back to the galaxy, it is possible
that Kollos can, with Spock forming a mind meld. Kirk distracts Dr. Jones, who
jealously objects to Spock contacting Kollos in this manner. Kirk discovers
why Dr. Jones is able to gaze upon Kollos... she's blind.

Using Spock's body, Kollos pilots the U.S.S. Enterprise back to its galaxy,
but the Vulcan forgets to wear his protective visor when restoring Kollos to
his box, and goes insane. Dr. Jones mind-links with Spock and draws the
Vulcan's mind back to reality. She then makes a permanent mind link with
Kollos and transfers with him to the Medusan vessel.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bill Blackburn  (Security Guard)
       David Frankham  (Dr. Laurence Marvick)
       Diana Muldaur   (Dr. Miranda Jones)
       Dick Greay      (Security Guard)
       Robert Balver   (Yeoman)
       Vince Deadrick  (Security Guard)

Written By : Jean Lisette Aroeste

Directed By : Ralph Senensky
¡The Empath [TOS #64]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/empath.iff
Stardate 5121.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise goes to pick up research personnel on the second planet
of the star Minara. While Kirk, Spock and McCoy are on the surface, a
radiation storm endangers the starship and Scotty takes the Enterprise out of
orbit, sure that the planet's atmosphere will protect the landing party from
radiation.

The three officers find themselves in an underground chamber shared with a
mute humanoid which McCoy names "Gem." Two other humanoids, different from
Gem, appear to them. They tell the men they are Vians, and take Kirk as a test
subject to torture. He is assured, however, that it isn't he who is being
tested. Gem, who turns out to be a fully functional empath, heals Kirk's
wounds. The Vians tell the captain he must choose one of his men to be the
next text subject. Each man volunteers, but McCoy wins, managing to
anesthetize both Spock and Kirk, and is taken away by the Vians.

When he is returned to them, McCoy is near death. Gem attempts to cure him,
but is frightened by the severity of his injuries. The Vians explain to them
that they are testing Gem to see if her people are worthy as a species to be
saved from their doomed sun. They are testing Gem's capacity for compassion
and self-sacrifice. Overcoming her fears, Gem heals McCoy and the Vians decide
that her species is to be saved. The officers are returned unharmed to the
U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Alan Bergmann   (Lal)
       Davis Roberts   (Dr. Ozaba)
       Jason Wingreen  (Dr. Linke)
       Kathryn Hays    (Gem)
       Willard Sage    (Thann)

Written By : Joyce Muskat

Directed By : John Erman
¡The Tholian Web [TOS #65]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/tholianweb.iff
Stardate 5693.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives in an uncharted area of space to answer a
distress call from the U.S.S. Defiant. The starship is visible on their
viewscreen, but sensors on board the U.S.S. Enterprise say it's not there.

Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Chekov beam aboard and spread out to investigate.
Everyone aboard is dead... apparently killed in a bizarre mutiny, although
there are no life readings aboard. McCoy, in the ship's sickbay, tells Kirk
that he can find no clue as to why the crew died, but has taken readings to
study. Then, as his hand passes through a body and exam table, McCoy realizes
the U.S.S. Defiant is dissolving.

Quickly Kirk orders them beamed back to the U.S.S. Enterprise, but Scotty
explains that due to the poor stability of the space around them, he can only
beam three aboard. After the usual debate, Kirk stays behind while the others
beam back. When Scotty tries to bring Kirk aboard, his image wavers, and
disappears. Interphase, Spock calculates, will occur in a little over two
hours. In the meantime, they must wait. If the captain is still alive, they
should be able to retrieve him then.

Complications arise when Chekov goes berserk and attacks Spock on the bridge.
Slowly, more members of the crew fall prey to the 'illness', attacking their
crewmates. McCoy and his staff work round the clock to find a cure. When the
doctor suggests Spock "put some distance" between the U.S.S. Enterprise and
the U.S.S. Defiant, Spock explains that any movement in the weakened space
could disturb both ship's positions and jeopardize Kirk's rescue.

At a little over an hour before interphase, a Tholian ship appears, telling
Spock that the U.S.S. Enterprise has violated Tholian space. The Vulcan
explains that they were answering a distress call and are waiting until they
can retrieve Kirk. The Tholians agree to wait until the appointed time before
taking action.

Unfortunately, when the interphase occurs, Kirk is not where he should be.
Spock suspects that the Tholian's entrance into the area of space disturbed
the U.S.S. Defiant's position. A funeral service is held for Captain Kirk,
following which McCoy insists they view the Captain's last orders. Spock
reluctantly agrees and the two men go to their friend's quarters and listen to
Kirk's touching advice.

Uhura is the first to see Kirk's image floating before her, and for a time,
McCoy thinks she's contracted the disease. But when he and Spock see the Kirk
on the bridge, they realize that he is, in fact, still alive.

The Tholians decide that Spock has, in fact, lied to them and opens fire.
Making a decision, Spock orders the phasers fired at the ship. The Tholian
ship is disabled, but soon another ship joins it and they begin 'building' a
sort of web made of shining filaments. Spock analyses the web and announces
that if they don't bring Kirk aboard and leave before the web is completed,
they "won't see home again." At the last minute, Spock orders full power
against the web and the U.S.S. Enterprise is thrown outside the Tholian's
trap, several parsecs from their former position. The hope is that Kirk,
caught in the U.S.S. Enterprise tractor beam when they changed position, was
brought with them.

Tensely McCoy waits with a hypo of tri-ox for Kirk, whose air is running out
as he's successfully beamed on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, alive and
unharmed. In a humorous tag, McCoy and Spock convince Kirk that there had been
no time to view his final orders and Kirk, somewhat disappointed that his
wisdom had gone unheard, says that he hopes there isn't a similar circumstance
where the two men will view the tape.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Babara Babcock  (Tholian Voices)
       Majel Barrett   (Christine Chapel)
       Sean Morgan     (Lt. O'Neil)

Written By : Chet Richards
             Judy Burns

Directed By : Herb Wallerstein
¡For The World Is Hollow And I Have Touched The Sky [TOS #66]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/hollowsky.iff
Stardate 5476.3

At the same time McCoy discovers that he has a year to live, the U.S.S.
Enterprise encounters the asteroid Yonada which is determined to be
artificially propelled. Its center is occupied by humanoids, whose ancestors
built the asteroid "vessel" in an effort to escape the destruction of their
solar system. However, the controls have become defective and Yonada is
heading for collision with a Federation planet.

The people are ruled by Natira, a priestess who takes her orders from the
central computer. While Kirk and Spock search for the central controls that
will redirect the ship, McCoy and Natira fall in love. Kirk and Spock return
to the U.S.S. Enterprise but McCoy, wishing to spend what little time he has
left with the woman he's come to love, stays behind, marries Natira and
accepts the "Instrument of Obedience" which punishes wrong thinking.

Soon after the marriage, McCoy calls Kirk, telling him that he may have found
the controls for the asteroid. However, he is struck down by the "Instrument
of Obedience" before he can tell them where. Kirk and Spock beam back to
Yonada, remove the sensor from McCoy, and locate the controls. They manage to
put Yonada back on course. In deciphering the computer's library, Spock finds
a cure for McCoy's disease, and the doctor returns to the U.S.S. Enterprise.
Natira must stay on Yonada to guide her people and so bids McCoy good-bye.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Byron Morrow    (Admiral Westervliet)
       James Doohan    (Oracle Voice)
       Jon Lormer      (Old Man)
       Kate Woodville  (Natira)
       Majel Barrett   (Christine Chapel)

Written By : Rick Vollaerts

Directed By : Tony Leader
¡Day Of The Dove [TOS #67]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/daydove.iff
Stardate Unknown

A U.S.S. Enterprise landing party beams to a human-colonized planet in answer
to a distress call. A Klingon ship, apparently damaged, is detected and a
group of Klingons accuse Kirk of having damaged their ship. Kang, their
leader, claims the U.S.S. Enterprise as a prize and Kirk beams the Klingons on
board, reluctantly. However, Spock is warned by Kirk and quickly takes the
Klingons prisoner. Both ships seem to have received the same, false, distress
call.

A malevolent entity has entered into the U.S.S. Enterprise computer and
excites both sides to aggressive behavior. It forces the ship out of control,
rushing toward the galactic rim, while isolating a number of Klingons and
U.S.S. Enterprise crew, heightening their sense of paranoia and violence
turning them against each other. Phasers become swords and the battle begins.

Spock finally realizes that the entity feeds off hatred and emotional
excitation and has acted as a catalyst to provoke combat, keeping the numbers
on both sides even. Kirk is able, in the end, to make a common-cause truce
with the Klingons and they drive the creature out of the ship with their
laughter.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : David L. Ross   (Lt. Johnson)
       Majel Barrett   (Computer Voice)
       Mark Tobin      (Klingon)
       Michael Ansara  (Kang)
       Susan Howard    (Mara)

Written By : Jerome Bixby

Directed By : Marvin Chomsky
¡Plato's Stepchildren [TOS #68]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/platos.iff
Stardate 5784.2

When the U.S.S. Enterprise receives a distress call from the planet Platonius,
Kirk, Spock and McCoy beam down to the planet's surface. There they find the
planet's leader, Parmen, with a badly infected leg. The Platonians, while
powerful psycho kinetics, have no resistance against physical injury. As
Parmen's wife tells them, a cut or break in the skin can literally cause
death. The only resident of Platonius that doesn't have "the power" is
Alexander, a dwarf, who is everyone's jester and slave.

When Parmen's wound has healed and the landing party prepares to leave, they
find the U.S.S. Enterprise's control are frozen. Parmen has decided that it
would be beneficial for them to have a resident doctor and tries to convince
McCoy to remain. When he refuses, Parmen and the others try to convince him by
subjecting Kirk and Spock to several humiliating scenarios. Still the doctor
refuses and the three officers are locked away to ponder their plight.

After questioning Alexander, McCoy determines that the Platonians probably got
their mental powers from eating the local foods. Something about Alexander's
metabolism has kept him from acquiring those powers as well. McCoy prepares
concentrated doses of kironide, the substance in the local food, and injects
it into Kirk and Spock. Alexander, given the chance, refuses an injection. He
doesn't want the same powers that his masters have.

As they discuss their next move, the shimmering of a transporter beam appear
in the room and Lt. Uhura and Nurse Chapel appear. Without a word, they are
jerked out of the room, as if controlled with invisible strings, and
disappear. Kirk comments grimly that the men were apparently not entertaining
enough for the Platonians.

Later, Uhura and Christine join the other officers, dressed in sparkling gowns
and lavish makeup. Christine's is even vaguely Vulcan with slanted eyebrows
and partially covered ears. What follows is a series of "games" designed to
humiliate the U.S.S. Enterprise crew members and entertain the Platonians.
McCoy, seated in a place of honor beside Parmen, is expected to accept the
leaders offer to stay and serve as their physician.

Kirk and Spock are forced to fight each other and Spock is made to sing
"Maiden Wine" to the two women. Finally, Spock is paired on a loveseat with
Christine, while Kirk shares one with Uhura. They are forced to make advances
on the women. The play gets nasty then, as Kirk and Spock take up whips, which
they snap at their respective partners. By now, however, the doses of kironide
are beginning to take effect and both officers now resist the Platonians
powers and throw down their weapons.

Kirk tells Parmen that they can recreate this power whenever they want and if
the Federation finds that Parmen and his people have fallen back to their old
ways, there will be trouble. With this, Kirk calls for the U.S.S. Enterprise
to beam them aboard... along with Alexander, who will be coming with them to
start a new life.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Armando Gonzales  (Spock's Flamenco Dance Double)
       Barbara Babcock   (Philana)
       Derek Partidge    (Dionyd)
       Liam Sullivan     (Parmen)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel)
       Michael Dunn      (Alexander)
       Ted Scott         (Eraclitus)

Written By : Meyer Dolinsky

Directed By : David Alexander
¡Wink Of An Eye [TOS #69]
1968048*o*Data/STOS/winkeye.iff
Stardate 5710.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise responds to a distress call from the planet Scalos; the
call shows several Scalosians asking for assistance. Arriving at Scalos,
however, the crew find only an empty city, with no life forms registering on
tricorder scans. Compton, a young, inexperienced crewman samples the local
water and disappears.

Beaming back up to the ship, the crew investigates while the U.S.S. Enterprise
experiences a series of strange malfunctions. When an alien device is found in
engineering, the ship is put on full alert. Back on the Bridge, Kirk sips
coffee and suddenly finds himself "accelerated" far beyond the rest of his
crew. After acceleration, he is able to see and interact with the missing
Scalosians, who are now on his ship.

Kirk meets Deela, the Queen of the Scalosians, who specifically chose Kirk to
be her consort. Deela reveals the Scalosians' plan to cryogenically freeze the
crew of the ship so that they will have a ready gene pool to integrate into
their radiation-contaminated one. Kirk also finds his missing crewman,
Compton, and sees the effects of rapid acceleration - any damage to cells
causes an accelerated death.

Kirk manages to send a message to Spock and McCoy warning them, and delays the
Scalosians long enough for Spock to join Kirk in his accelerated state. Spock
brings a possible antidote with him, and after stopping the Scalosians, and
returning them to their planet, Kirk takes it. The Captain returns to normal,
and Spock uses the advantage of his acceleration to repair several of the
ship's systems, before he too returns to normal speed.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Ed Hice          (Scalosians)
       Erik Holland     (Ekor)
       Geoffrey Binney  (Crewman Compton)
       Jason Evers      (Rael)
       Kathie Browne    (Deela)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel / Computer Voice)
       Richard Geary    (Scalosians)

Teleplay By : Arthur Heinemann

Story By : Lee Cronin

Directed By : Jud Taylor
¡That Which Survives [TOS #70]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/thatwhichsur.iff
Stardate Unknown

As a landing party prepares to beam down to a previously unexplored Class M
planet, a beautiful woman, Losira, appears. She touches an ensign and kills
him. Already dematerializing in the transporter beam, Kirk and the rest of his
party are helpless to stop her. Losira disappears.

The surge of power that Losira's appearance caused hurtles the U.S.S.
Enterprise 990.7 light years away from where they were. Spock calculates that
it will take 11.33 hours at warp 8.4 to return to the planet.

On the surface of the planet, Kirk, McCoy, Sulu and geologist D'Amato discover
the vegetation is poisonous to humans and the rocks are made of an alloy that
did not develop naturally. Losira appears again and kills D'Amato, again, by
merely touching him. She vanishes, then reappears, this time for Sulu, but he
avoids her and they realize she can only harm the person whose name she calls.

Kirk, Sulu and McCoy band together to keep her from killing them. Losira
reappears on the Enterprise, in engineering, and kills another crewman. When
Scotty insists that something "feels" wrong with the ship, they discover that
Losira had sabotaged the matter/antimatter integrator. Scotty repairs the
device before it has a chance to explode.

On the planet's surface, the landing party finds a chamber in the rocks that
houses a computer. They realize that this is where Losira appears from. Losira
appears to them again, this time in threes, so that she can touch each officer
at once.

Spock and a security team arrive and destroy the computer that was projecting
Losira's image. A visual recording triggered by the computer shows that the
planet was once an outpost of the Kalandan race. It was ravaged by a deadly
organism which supply ships unknowingly carried back to their home world. With
the computer destroyed, the last of the Kalandans' civilization is also dead.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arthur Batanides    (Lt. D'Amato)
       Booker Bradshaw     (Dr. M'Benga)
       Brad Forrest        (Ensign Wyatt)
       Kenneth Washington  (John B. Watkins)
       Lee Meriwether      (Losira)
       Naomi Pollack       (Lt. Rahda)

Teleplay By : John Meredyth Lucas

Story By : Michael Richards

Directed By : Herb Wallerstein
¡Let That Be Your Last Battlefield [TOS #71]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/lastbattle.iff
Stardate 5730.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise intercepts a stolen Federation shuttlecraft which
contains a humanoid named Lokai. Taken aboard the ship, Lokai tells the crew
he is from the planet Cheron, and asks for asylum on the U.S.S. Enterprise.
His most distinctive feature is that he is half black and half white, starkly
separated down the middle of his body.

The U.S.S. Enterprise tracks another vessel, pursuing at great speed. The
ship's only passenger beams on board and is discovers to be another humanoid
from Cheron. The difference in this man, Bele, is that his black and white
skin is reversed from Lokai's. Bele claims to be Cheron's chief officer sent
out to bring in political traitors, and has been pursuing Lokai. The more the
two men are aboard the starship, the more Kirk realizes that the basic problem
between them... and their entire race, apparently... is their opposite color.
Tiring of their bigotry, Kirk decides to ignore the two guests and concentrate
on his original mission; to decontaminate the planet Ariannus, plagued with a
bacteria that endangers billions of lives.

When Bele takes control of the U.S.S. Enterprise in a desperate attempt, Kirk
sets the ships auto-destruct sequence instead of allowing the hijacking to
continue, and the alien returns command to the captain. However, once planet
Ariannus is decontaminated, Bele takes back his control over the starship and
leads it back to Cheron. What they find is a long-dead planet, annihilated by
their interracial bigotry. Lokai beams down to the surface to escape Bele, who
follows. The U.S.S. Enterprise leaves them on the surface, to decide their own
fates.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Frank Gorshin  (Bele)
       Lou Antonio    (Lokai)
       Majel Barrett  (Christine Chapel / Computer Voice)

Teleplay By : Oliver Crawford

Story By : Lee Cronin

Directed By : Jud Taylor
¡Whom Gods Destroy [TOS #72]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/whomgods.iff
Stardate 5718.3

Elba II, a planet with a poisonous atmosphere, also has a facility beneath its
surface for the incurably, criminally insane. The U.S.S. Enterprise is
bringing a new medicine with which they hope to eliminate mental illness
forever.

When Kirk and Spock beam down to the facility of 15 inmates, they find that
the asylum has been taken over by Garth, who was once a famous starship
captain. He was driven insane by the terrible injuries he received while
rescuing others. Garth convinces them that he is the head of the facility, in
an attempt to gain control of the U.S.S. Enterprise and conquer the galaxy. He
crowns himself, "Master of the Universe," and, when the officers won't be
tricked into beaming him aboard the starship, he tortures Elba II's governor
and then Kirk. He then sends his Orion mistress, Marta, out to the deadly
surface above, only to "mercifully" spare her by blowing her to bits.

Spock, who had become separated from Kirk, returns to help the captain but
finds two James Kirks. Garth learned the power of shape-shifting from a gentle
race of beings that were unaware of his madness. When one of the Kirks offers
to sacrifice himself to stop Garth, Spock realizes that this is the real
Captain Kirk and subdues Garth. Garth is given the healing medication brought
by the Enterprise men and begins the long road to recovery.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Gary Downey    (Tellarite)
       Keye Luke      (Governor Donald Cory)
       Richard Geary  (Andorian)
       Steve Ihnat    (Garth of Izar)
       Yvonne Craig   (Marta)

Teleplay By : Lee Erwin

Story By : Jerry Sohl
           Lee Erwin

Directed By : Herb Wallerstein
¡The Mark Of Gideon [TOS #73]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/markgideon.iff
Stardate 5423.4

The Planet Gideon appears to be a haven - the inhabitants are healthy and no
one seems to ever die in the totally germ-free environment.

The United Federation of Planets sends the U.S.S. Enterprise to Gideon, in the
hope that the Gideons will accede and become a member. Reluctantly, the Gideon
council allows Captain Kirk alone to beam to their council chamber, and he
transports off the ship. When Kirk apparently fails to arrive on the planet,
the Gideon council refuses to allow more people on the surface, even for a
search party.

Kirk finds himself on his own ship, where all of his crew have seemingly
vanished. After searching the ship, he finds one lone, beautiful woman, Odona.
Kirk determines that Odona is from Gideon, and that they are on a false ship,
built on the planet's surface. When Odona becomes ill, the Gideon's plan is
revealed: using Kirk's blood, Odona was infected with a disease which Kirk had
recovered from - Vegan choriomeningitis. The infection is fatal, and the
Gideons hoped to spread it across their world to reduce the population.

Spock beams down, discovers the false Enterprise, and returns to the real
starship with Kirk and Odona, who - while cured - is still able to infect
her people. Odona, the daughter of Gideon Council leader Hodan, is returned to
her people delighted that she will cause a lethal plague to reduce the
overpopulation.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : David Hurst    (Hodin)
       Gene Dynarski  (Krodak)
       Richard Derr   (Admiral Fitzgerald)
       Sharon Acker   (Odona)

Written By : George F. Slavin
             Stanley Adams

Directed By : Jud Taylor
¡The Lights Of Zetar [TOS #74]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/lightszetar.iff
Stardate 5725.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise's mission is to take Lt. Mira Romaine to Memory Alpha,
the central library for the United Federation of Planets. There she will
supervise the transfer of new equipment to the facility. Mr. Scott is
immediately attracted to the pretty lieutenant, and the feelings are returned.

While in orbit, an energy storm destroys all the inhabitants of Memory Alpha,
wiping its computer memory banks. As a result of the storm, Lt. Romaine can
predict where the storm will strike next; the Enterprise.

Despite evasive tactics by the starship, the storm enters the Enterprise where
it is seen as brilliantly flashing colored lights. The lights enter Lt.
Romaine and there is no way to remove them without killing the officer.
Perusal of her file reveals a high susceptibility to empathic transmissions,
making her an excellent home for the lights. The lights turn out to be
non-corporeal entities from the long-dead planet, Zetar. They maintain that
they have the right to inhabit Lt. Romaine's body, but Kirk doesn't agree.
When Mira is placed in a pressure chamber, the Zetars, who are used to the
vacuum of space, die. Lt. Romaine is free and presumably returns to Memory
Alpha to help rebuild the great library.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Babcock  (Zetar Voices)
       Bud Da Vinci     (Crewman)
       Jan Shutan       (Lt. Mira Romaine)
       John Winston     (Mr. Kyle)
       Libby Erwin      (Technician)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel / Computer Voice)

Written By : Jeremy Tarcher
             Shari Lewis

Directed By : Herb Kenwith
¡The Cloud Minders [TOS #75]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/cloudminders.iff
Stardate 5818.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise comes to the planet Ardana to acquire zienite, a rare
mineral needed to stop a planet-wide plague on Merak II. The zienite is not
available, however, because the miner class Troglytes are rebelling against
the rulers of Ardana, who live in the cloud-city of Stratos.

The Stratos-dwellers insist that the Troglytes are naturally inferior beings,
but Kirk discovers that the Troglytes are being affected by a gas emitted
during mining.

Unable to get both sides to settle their differences, Kirk traps the Troglyte
leader Vanna and the High Advisor of Ardana's Ruling Council, Plasus, inside a
mine. When the gas takes effect, Plasus realizes what is happening and
promises to help the Troglytes. With peace restored, the U.S.S. Enterprise is
able to secure the zienite it needs.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bob Miles        (Cloud City Sentinel #2)
       Charlene Polite  (Vanna)
       Diana Ewing      (Droxine)
       Ed Long          (Midro)
       Fred Williamson  (Anka)
       Garth Pillsbury  (Prisoner)
       Harv Selsby      (Security Guard)
       Jay Jones        (Prisoner #1)
       Jeff Corey       (Plasus)
       Jimmy Fields     (Cloud Guard #2)
       Kirk Raymone     (Cloud Guard #1)
       Lou Elias        (Troglytes)
       Marvin Walters   (Troglytes)
       Richard Geary    (Cloud City Sentinel #1)
       Roger Holloway   (Mr. Lemli)
       Walter Scott     (Cloud Guard)

Teleplay By : Margaret Armen

Story By : David Gerrold
           Oliver Crawford

Directed By : Jud Taylor
¡The Way To Eden [TOS #76]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/wayeden.iff
Stardate 5832.3

Chasing the stolen vessel Aurora, the U.S.S. Enterprise rescues the thieves
just before the Aurora is destroyed. The group is led by Dr. Sevrin in a
search for a mythological planet named Eden, a planet reputed to be a
paradise.

Since one of Sevrin's group is the son of a Federation ambassador, Sevrin is
held in protective custody while his followers are permitted to be free aboard
ship. But when Spock is able to deduce Eden's location, Sevrin's followers
free Sevrin and take over the starship.

Reaching Eden, Sevrin takes his people down to the surface in a shuttlecraft.
When Kirk leads a landing party in pursuit, they find that the planet's
vegetation all secretes deadly acid, and the fruits are all poisonous. Madly
refusing to believe Kirk, Sevrin bites a piece of fruit and dies immediately.
With his death, his followers are taken back aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       Walter Koenig    (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Charles Napier      (Adam)
       Deborah Downey      (Girl #1)
       Elizabeth Rogers    (Lt. Palmer)
       Majel Barrett       (Christine Chapel)
       Mary-Linda Rapelye  (Irini Galliulin)
       Phyllis Douglas     (Girl #2)
       Roger Holloway      (Mr. Lemli)
       Skip Homeier        (Dr. Sevrin)
       Victor Brandt       (Tongo Rad)

Teleplay By : Arthur Heinemann

Story By : Arthur Heinemann
           Michael Richards

Directed By : David Alexander
¡Requiem For Methuselah [TOS #77]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/methuselah.iff
Stardate 5843.7

Rigellian fever, an extremely deadly plague, strikes the Enterprise crew.
Kirk, Spock and McCoy beam down to a supposedly uninhabited planet, Holberg
917-G, in search of the only known antidote, ryetalyn. To their surprise, they
encounter Flint and his daughter, Rayna. Not pleased to have visitors, Flint
orders his robot to gather and process ryetalyn, while the three officers are
entertained by his daughter. Due to the robot contaminating the first batch of
antidote, McCoy tells it another must be made. In the meantime, Kirk and Rayna
have become attracted to each other, to Flint's jealous objection.

Spock has discovered, to his puzzlement, old masterpieces on modern supplies,
i.e. a da Vinci painting done with modern oils on new canvas and an unknown
Brahms waltz, written on new paper. Flint explains that he is an immortal, who
wandered the Earth for centuries in various personas, including Brahms and da
Vinci. He came to this planet to retire in peace and built the "Rayna" android
as his companion. He had hoped that her involvement with Kirk would speed up
her emotional growth, but now he has become hopelessly jealous. Not
understanding such intense emotions, Rayna short-circuits and 'dies.'

The Enterprise party takes the ryetalyn and returns to the Enterprise. McCoy
tells them that Flint, too, will soon perish because what made him immortal
was the atmosphere of Earth. Leaving it robbed him of that power.

In a surprisingly compassionate gesture, Spock uses a Vulcan mind touch to
erase the painful memories of Rayna from Kirk's mind.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Daly    (Flint)
       John Buonomo  (Orderly)
       Louise Sorel  (Rayna Kapec)

Written By : Jerome Bixby

Directed By : Murray Golden
¡The Savage Curtain [TOS #78]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/savagecurtain.iff
Stardate 5906.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise is scanned by a powerful energy source coming from the
planet Excalbia. The starship had been sent to survey the planet, but it was
thought to consist of nothing but a lavalike surface without inhabitants.

The image of Abraham Lincoln appears in space and requests to be beamed
aboard, claiming to be the genuine Lincoln. Against McCoy's objections, Kirk
and Spock beam the entity aboard. They accept his offer to visit Excalbia,
where a rock-like creature named Yarnek appears. Yarnek declares that the
Enterprise officers are to participate in a battle between good and evil. This
is to teach the Excalbians about humanoid concepts. Fighting for the "good"
are, Kirk, Spock, Lincoln and Surak, founder of the present Vulcan culture. On
the "bad" side are, Genghis Khan, Colonel Green, Zora, a vicious killer, and
Kahless, father of the Klingon Empire as it was now known.

When the Enterprise officers refuse to fight, Yarnek freezes the starship's
engines, starting a breakdown of the matter/antimatter shielding. If Kirk
doesn't win, the ship will explode in four hours. There is much plotting and
counter-plotting, until only Kirk, Spock, Khan and Zora remain alive. After
some philosophical discussion regarding "good" and "evil," Yarnek returns Kirk
and Spock to the U.S.S. Enterprise and frees the ship.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Arell Blanton          (Chief Security Guard Lt. Dickerson)
       Barry Atwater          (Surak)
       Bart LaRue             (Voice Of Yarnek)
       Carol Daniels Derment  (Zora)
       Janos Prohaska         (Yarnek)
       Lee Bergere            (Abraham Lincoln)
       Nathan Jung            (Genghis Khan)
       Phillip Pine           (Col. Green)
       Robert Herron          (Kahless)

Teleplay By : Arthur Heinemann
              Gene Roddenberry

Story By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Herschel Daugherty
¡All Our Yesterdays [TOS #79]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/allouryes.iff
Stardate 5943.7

The crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise investigate the planet Sarpeidon whose sun
is soon to go nova. Upon beaming to the surface, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy
discover the inhabitants gone and a library containing the planet's
accumulated knowledge.

Kirk, Spock and McCoy are surprised to find a lone inhabitant on the surface,
Mr. Atoz, the librarian, who mistakes them for citizens of Sarpeidon. Mr. Atoz
has been transferring people into the planet's past using a machine called the
"atavachron". While investigating this unique technology, Kirk leaps to rescue
a woman he hears screaming and ends transported to a period fraught with
superstitions and witchcraft. Attempting to follow Kirk, Spock and McCoy enter
the atavachron's portal to find themselves in a different time - Sarpeidon's
ice age.

McCoy, who is close to freezing to death, and Spock are rescued by a beautiful
woman, Zarabeth. While close to the portals they entered from, Kirk, Spock and
McCoy can communicate with each other but little more. However, this is enough
to get Kirk arrested for practicing witchcraft.

Spock increasingly finds himself attracted to Zarabeth, and disturbingly more
emotional and irrational, and even takes to eating meat. McCoy convinces Spock
that this time in Sarpeidon's past is linked to Vulcan's primitive past and
that they must return to their own time. Zarabeth insists they cannot return
to the present without dying.

In jail, Kirk is befriended by a lawyer, another traveler of Sarpeidon's
present, who helps him escape to find the portal, and return to the library.

Zarabeth helps McCoy and Spock to the place where she found them. By following
the sound of Kirk's voice, they find their portal and leap back into the
library. Mr. Atoz leaps to his own designated past and the Enterprise, with
Kirk, Spock, and McCoy safely aboard, warps from orbit just as the sun
explodes.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Al Cavens         (Fop #2)
       Anna Karen        (Woman)
       Ed Bakey          (Fop #1)
       Ian Wolfe         (Mr. Atoz)
       Johnny Haymer     (Constable)
       Kermit Murdock    (The Prosecuter)
       Mariette Hartley  (Zarabeth)
       Stan Barrett      (The Jailer)

Written By : Jean Lisette Aroeste

Directed By : Marvin Chomsky
¡Turnabout Intruder [TOS #80]
1969048*o*Data/STOS/turnabout.iff
Stardate 5928.5

Dr. Janice Lester, who was once involved with Captain Kirk, harbors a deep
hatred of the captain, because she, herself, has never been able to captain a
starship. On their way to Beta Aurigae, the U.S.S. Enterprise receives a call
for help from Camus II. The landing party finds only Janice Lester and Dr.
Coleman, who claim that the everyone else was killed by celebium radiation. In
fact, Janice is quite ill from it.

Unaware of Lester's feelings of hatred toward him, Kirk sits with her,
recalling their days together. Kirk is suddenly trapped into a life-entity
transfer with Janice. His personality is in her body, while she takes over
his, finally becoming captain of a starship. Kirk, with Janice's essence,
tries to kill her victim, but fails. McCoy transports Janice, with Kirk's
essence, to sickbay to try and treat her illness. While Kirk, trapped in
Janice's body, tries to convince everyone that he's really the captain, Janice
takes control of the ship and diverts it to the Benecia Colony. There she
plans to leave her body, that houses Kirk's essence, thereby eliminating all
her problems.

The crew becomes suspicious of her actions and, when Spock tries to question
her, she charges him with mutiny. They realize something is wrong and
Janice/Kirk is relieved of duty. When the transfer weakens and finally breaks,
Kirk returns to his body, as Janice's essence returns to hers. Janice makes a
last attempt to hurt Kirk, then collapses. Dr. Coleman, in love with Janice,
requests that he be allowed to care for her. The U.S.S. Enterprise and her
crew return to their mission, with their rightful captain at the helm.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       Walter Koenig    (Ensign Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Barbara Baldavin  (Lisa)
       David L. Ross     (Lt. Galloway)
       Harry Landers     (Dr. Arthur Coleman)
       John Boyer        (Guard)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel)
       Roger Holloway    (Mr. Lemli)
       Sandra Smith      (Dr. Janice Lester)

Teleplay By : Arthur H. Singer

Story By : Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Herb Wallerstein
¡The Motion Picture [TOS #1M]
1979126*o*Data/STOS/mov1.iff
Stardate 7412.6

In 2271 an unknown, cloud-like entity descends upon several Klingon vessels
and destroys them. Having monitored the surprise attack, Federation space
station Epsilon Nine is still unable to prevent itself from becoming the next
victim of this vast, mysterious energy cloud.

Meanwhile, on Vulcan, Spock is preparing to undergo the rite of Kolinahr -
the achievement of total Vulcan logic - and the purging of all remaining
emotion. Just then Spock's human half stirs in response to the cloud entity,
interrupting his meditation and forcing the Vulcan masters to withdraw Spock's
admission to their ranks.

On Earth, the U.S.S. Enterprise is readying to investigate the cloud entity.
Admiral Nogura is persuaded by Admiral James T. Kirk to hand over command of
the newly refit Starship Enterprise to him, superseding the vessel's present
captain, Will Decker, who is unhappy with this new situation. Arriving on
board the Enterprise, Kirk requests that Dr. Leonard McCoy, retired now, be
recalled into service as the starship's doctor. An unchanged, blustery Dr.
McCoy comes aboard and replaces Dr. Christine Chapel, who steps down out of
respect. Also on board is a Deltan navigator, Ilia, who in the past was
romantically involved with Will Decker.

In a tragic accident, two crew members are killed in a transporter malfunction
- one of which was the new Vulcan science officer, Sonak.

The accident behind them, Kirk gathers much of the crew together to deliver a
mission briefing, stressing the enormous power of the entity they are faced
with. After a relatively uneventful departure from Earth's drydock facilities,
the U.S.S. Enterprise is suddenly faced with a giant wormhole and Kirk,
unfamiliar with the design of the new vessel, almost allows the wormhole to
destroy the ship. The U.S.S. Enterprise escapes, however, and is hailed by a
courier vessel bearing Kirk's new science officer. Overcome with joy at seeing
Spock, Kirk is soon confronted with a cold, withdrawn stranger.

The starship eventually encounters the cloud-like being, yet the entity proves
to be too strong, damaging the U.S.S. Enterprise on all levels and leaving the
starship stricken. When Spock attempts to communicate with the cloud by
sending messages of non-aggression, a probe is triggered and sent from the
center of the cloud. The crew can only watch helplessly as the probe accesses
the U.S.S. Enterprise's consoles and computers, accumulating data from all
parts of the ship. In his attempt to stop the violation, Spock is attacked,
whereupon the probe vanishes with Ilia.

The U.S.S. Enterprise is then seized by a tractor beam and pulled inside the
cloud to a large chamber. Another probe, in the form of Ilia, appears and
tells them that it has been sent by "V'Ger" to study the carbon-based units
that "infest" the starship. Furthermore, the crew learns that V'Ger is on its
way to Earth to join with its "Creator."

In an attempt to establish contact with V'Ger, Kirk trades on Decker's past
association with Ilia and assigns Decker to work with the probe. The
Ilia-probe tells him that the carbon-units will be patterned for data storage.

Deciding that the best method of gathering more data about V'Ger is directly
from the source, Spock dons a thrust suit and leaves the ship. His incredible
visual journey to the center of the cloud culminates when Spock sees images of
everything that V'Ger has experienced. Spock tries to mind-meld with the
life-form, but is short-circuited and barely makes it back to the U.S.S.
Enterprise. Taken to sickbay, Spock informs Kirk that his mind-meld did allow
him to learn that V'Ger is lonely and seeking to learn why it was created.
Furthermore, it is learned that a machine planet built the cloud and craft
that house V'Ger.

V'Ger arrives at Earth and signals its Creator. When there is no response,
V'Ger blasts energy bolts at the planet in an attempt to rid it of all its
carbon infestations. Forced to act, Kirk tells V'Ger he knows why the Creator
has not answered. The Ilia-probe, interested by Kirk's remark, says it will
cease its attack when Kirk explains. But Kirk replies he will answer to no one
but V'Ger itself. With some trepidation, Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Decker are
lead by the Ilia-probe outside the ship to the "brain" of V'Ger. At the center
of the chamber, the Starfleet officers are surprised to discover that V'Ger is
in reality a twentieth century Earth robot space probe. In fact, a mounted
plaque looks as though it reads "Voyager 6."

Kirk and his crew discover that the probe disappeared into a black hole and
emerged at the other end, crash landing on a planet inhabited by living
machines. After repairing the probe, the machines then followed its
programming - observe and transmit readings to NASA. Spock deduces that these
living machines interpreted those long-ago orders as "Learn all that is
learnable and return that information to the Creator."

When the U.S.S. Enterprise transmits old Voyager codes, the V'Ger transmits
all of its information. Then, unexpectedly, V'Ger insists that the Creator
come in person to finish the sequence. When he realizes that V'Ger wants to
physically merge with its Creator, Will Decker volunteers. Decker and Ilia
join together and merge into a glowing, non-corporeal entity, which
disappears.

The U.S.S. Enterprise crew humbly realize that a new life form has just been
created. The experience has left Spock more at peace with himself and he
decides not to return to Vulcan. Kirk has command of his beloved U.S.S.
Enterprise and McCoy is back in charge of sickbay.

Having witnessed events suggesting that "the human adventure is just
beginning," Kirk commands the starship out to space for a real shakedown
cruise and future missions.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Admiral James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bill McTosh          (Klingon Crew Member)
       Billy Van Zandt      (Alien Boy)
       Craig Thomas         (Klingon Crew Member)
       Dave Moordigian      (Klingon Crew Member)
       David Gautreaux      (Cmdr. Branch)
       Edna Glover          (Vulcan Master)
       Franklyn Seales      (Crew Member)
       Gary Faga            (Airlock Technician)
       Grace Lee Whitney    (Ensign Janice Rand)
       Howard Itzkowitz     (Cargo Deck Ensign)
       Iva Lane             (Crew Member)
       Jimmie Booth         (Klingon Crew Member)
       Joel Kramer          (Klingon Crew Member)
       Joel Schultz         (Klingon Crew Member)
       John D. Gowans       (Assistant To Rand)
       Jon Rashad Kamal     (Cmdr. Sonak)
       Joshua Gallegos      (Security Officer)
       Junero Jennings      (Technical Assistant)
       Leslie C. Howard     (Yeoman)
       Majel Barrett        (Christine Chapel)
       Marcy Lafferty       (Chief De Falco)
       Mark Lenard          (Klingon Capt.)
       Michael Rougas       (Lt. Cleary)
       Michele Ameen Billy  (Lieutenant)
       Momo Yashima         (Crew Member)
       Norman Stuart        (Vulcan Master)
       Paul Weber           (Vulcan Master)
       Paula Crist          (Crew Member)
       Persis Khambatta     (Lt. Ilia)
       Ralph Brannen        (Crew Member)
       Ralph Byers          (Crew Member)
       Roger Aaron Brown    (Epsilon Technician)
       Sayra Hummel         (Technical Assistant)
       Stephen Collins      (Capt. Willard Decker)
       Susan J. Sullivan    (Woman)
       Terrence O'Connor    (Chief Ross)
       Tom Morga            (Klingon Crew Member)
       Tony Rocco           (Klingon Crew Member)

Story By : Alan Dean Foster

Screenplay By : Harold Livingston

Directed By : Robert Wise
¡The Wrath Of Khan [TOS #2M]
1982108*o*Data/STOS/mov2.iff
Stardate 8130.3

In 2285 at Starfleet Academy, Admiral Kirk is busy training new cadets. Among
the cadets is Saavik, a young protege of Spock's, who feels that she has
failed the Kobayashi Maru - a no-win scenario test used to evaluate potential
commanders. Kirk advises the young Vulcan that all commanders at some point
must face a "no-win" situation. Saavik, displaying her willingness to become a
reliable commander, pilots the Enterprise out of spacedock on a routine cadet
training exercise.

Meanwhile, Dr. Carol Marcus, an old love of Kirk's, and her son, David,
complete the final computer simulation of the Genesis project - a program
designed to grant life where there is none - on the space laboratory Regula
I. However, Dr. Marcus is concerned that Genesis could also be used as a
weapon. At the same time, the U.S.S. Reliant arrives at Ceti Alpha VI with a
mission to check for signs of life on the planet, a possible test site for
Genesis. Curious, Captain Terrell and Chekov beam to the surface where they
are confronted by Khan Noonien Singh, the former tyrant of Earth's Eugenic
Wars, exiled to the planet in 2267 by Captain Kirk. With the aid of
mind-controlling Ceti eels implanted in Terrell and Chekov, Khan gains control
of the Reliant.

At the Regula I space laboratory, Dr. Marcus is contacted by the Reliant and
told that Ceti Alpha VI has met the conditions required for testing of the
Genesis Device; the Reliant will therefore now take the Genesis Device, months
before the scheduled test. Furious at this encroachment by Starfleet, Dr.
Marcus contacts Kirk on the Enterprise, expressing her outrage at the Admiral
and Starfleet for their militaristic intentions. Although Kirk, McCoy, Uhura
and Sulu are leading a training mission for the Starfleet cadets, the crew
decides to head to Regulus I to investigate Dr. Marcus' complaint. When they
arrive, the Enterprise is inexplicably fired on by the Reliant. Khan finally
reveals himself from the bridge of the Reliant, demanding that Kirk give him
the Genesis information. Kirk pulls a brilliant bluff, allowing the Enterprise
precious computer time to secretly lower the shields of the other starship.
The Enterprise then damages the Reliant, forcing the captured starship to
withdraw for the moment.

When Kirk and company board Regula I, the crew is shocked to find that the
scientists have been tortured and killed. They follow transporter traces to
the interior of the planetoid below, finding Chekov and Captain Terrell alive
and seemingly well in an underground dwelling. Just then, David Marcus pulls a
surprise attack on Kirk, believing the Admiral to be the cause of all of the
station's trouble. Carol is then forced to reveal that Kirk is David's father.
Surprised and bewildered by the sudden turn of events, Kirk and David form an
uneasy truce. Carol then shows Kirk and crew the Genesis torpedo.

Unbeknownst to Kirk and the rest of the group, Terrell, still under the
influence of the Ceti eels, secretly gives Khan the coordinates of the
torpedo. Khan quickly beams the valuable device aboard the Reliant, then
orders Terrell to assassinate Kirk. Terrell, however, cannot bring himself to
kill the Admiral. Instead, Terrell turns his phaser on himself. When Chekov
also resists Khan's orders, the Ceti eel exits his ear and is subsequently
destroyed. Khan, thinking he is stranding Kirk and his crew on the planet,
departs Regula I. Carol Marcus then shows Kirk the Genesis cave, where an
entire biosystem has been created. She explains that this amazing breakthrough
means that barren planets can now be made safely habitable for colonists.
Kirk, impressed but concerned for his crippled starship, regains contact with
the Enterprise and has the landing party and scientists beamed aboard.

Meanwhile, a repaired Reliant under Khan's control obsessively searches for
the U.S.S. Enterprise. Left without warp drive in the previous skirmish, the
U.S.S. Enterprise hides in the Mutara Nebula. Kirk then deliberately goads
Khan, hoping to throw the former tyrant off balance, while the rest of the
crew searches for the Reliant in the static of the nebula cloud. Eventually,
the U.S.S. Enterprise is successful in fatally disabling the other starship.
But Khan, in his desperate hunger for revenge, arms the Genesis torpedo,
knowing full well that both ships will be destroyed upon its detonation. With
the Enterprise doomed without warp power, Spock suddenly enters the starship's
radiation chamber to repair the warp drive. McCoy tries to stop the determined
Vulcan, but Spock takes the upper hand and touches the doctor's forehead
cryptically, murmuring "Remember." Just as the Genesis torpedo explodes,
destroying Khan and the Reliant with it, the Enterprise zips into warp. The
crew and ship have been spared, yet Spock, dying of severe radiation, has
willingly given his own life.

With the Enterprise safely away, McCoy tells Kirk to come to the ship's engine
room. There, a stunned Kirk must bid an emotional farewell to his dearest
friend. Kirk need not mourn, says Spock, for his sacrifice was logical. "The
needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or the one" he tells his
captain. Spock dies, but in contrast to a new birth - the new living star and
planet formed from the nebula and Genesis. A sullen and mournful funeral is
held for Spock, and, accompanied by Scotty playing "Amazing Grace" on his
bagpipes, Spock's coffin is sent to rest upon the new planet.

With Khan defeated, David Marcus finally makes peace with his father. Kirk and
the U.S.S. Enterprise then go to Ceti Alpha V to pick up the abandoned Reliant
crew, and the ship heads for Earth. Kirk, though saddened at the loss of his
friend, is hopeful for the future, because as Spock once said, "there are
always possibilities."

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Capt. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Cmdr. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Admiral James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bibi Besch         (Dr. Carol Marcus)
       David Ruprecht     (Radio Voice)
       Dianne Harper      (Radio Voice)
       Ike Eisenmann      (Peter Preston)
       Joel Marstan       (Crew Chief)
       John Vargas        (Jedda)
       John Winston       (Mr. Kyle)
       Judson Scott       (Joaquim)
       Kevin Sullivan     (March)
       Kirstie Alley      (Lt. Saavik)
       Marcy Vosburgh     (Computer Voice)
       Merritt Butrick    (Dr. David Marcus)
       Nicholas Guest     (Cadet)
       Paul Kent          (Cmdr. Beach)
       Paul Winfield      (Capt. Clark Terrell)
       Ricardo Montalban  (Khan)
       Russell Takaki     (Madison)
       Teresa E. Victor   (Bridge Voice)

Story By : Harve Bennett
           Jack B. Sowards

Screenplay By : Jack B. Sowards

Directed By : Nicholas Meyer
¡The Search For Spock [TOS #3M]
1984101*o*Data/STOS/mov3.iff
Stardate 8210.3

As the U.S.S. Enterprise returns to spacedock for repairs following the battle
with Khan in 2285, Kirk continues to mourn Spock's death. McCoy suddenly
enters the Vulcan's sealed quarters, babbling incoherently. Upon reaching
Earth, McCoy is hospitalized. Scotty is reassigned to the U.S.S. Excelsior and
the newly formed Genesis Planet is decreed off-limits by Starfleet Command.
Kirk is then informed that the U.S.S. Enterprise is to be decommissioned.

In Kirk's quarters, Sarek, Spock's father, confronts the Admiral, saying that
Spock's body should have been returned to Vulcan so that his katra could have
been stored in an ancient Vulcan repository on Mount Seleya. Sarek tells Kirk
that he must retrieve the coffin from the Genesis planet and, since Spock
performed a last-minute Vulcan mind-meld with McCoy, thus transferring his
"katra" or spirit, the doctor must also return to Vulcan.

However, Starfleet refuses to allow the antiquated U.S.S. Enterprise to leave
spacedock. Released from the hospital and faced with this news, McCoy tries to
hire a craft to go back to the Genesis planet. He then starts a brawl and is
subsequently arrested, pending further psychiatric examination. The arrest
proves futile, though, when McCoy escapes with the help of Kirk, Scott, Sulu,
Uhura and Chekov. The crew then beams aboard the deserted U.S.S. Enterprise.
To avoid pursuit, Scotty removes an integral engine part from the U.S.S.
Excelsior and, knowing that they've all probably destroyed their careers, the
six friends take the U.S.S. Enterprise out for one final voyage.

Meanwhile, the Klingons have learned of the new Genesis Device and planet, and
fear that it could be a new Federation weapon. Lead by the treacherous Captain
Kruge, the Klingons set out to either destroy or capture the valuable device.

On board the U.S.S. Grissom, David Marcus and Lt. Saavik arrive at the Genesis
Planet for scientific observation. They quickly discover a lifeform reading
coming from the surface. Intrigued, the two beam to the planet's surface to
find Spock's empty coffin. Tracing the lifeform reading, the two then find the
living body of a child-Spock, aging with erratic rapidity but lacking a
consciousness or spirit.

Suddenly, the Klingons arrive, destroying the Grissom and taking Saavik,
Marcus, and the young Spock prisoner. Shortly thereafter, the U.S.S.
Enterprise arrives in the Mutara Sector and is crippled by Kruge and his
Klingon cohorts. With the Klingons threatening the lives of their prisoners,
Kirk tries a bluff to regain control of the situation, but is unsuccessful.
David Marcus is killed by the Klingon landing party. Faced with no other
choice, Kirk surrenders the U.S.S. Enterprise to the Klingons, yet in a
last-ditch effort to gain the upper hand, activates the starship's
self-destruct mechanism. The small U.S.S. Enterprise crew then beams to the
surface of the Genesis Planet, watching as their historic starship is
destroyed in a streak of light, taking with it most of Kruge's nefarious crew.

Kirk and party rescue Spock and Saavik from the Klingons and learn that an
unstable element used in the Genesis Device threatens the stability of the
planet, which is likely to explode within minutes. One factor of this
instability, however, is the rejuvenating effect it had on Spock's body. With
the planet reaching critical mass, Spock finally achieves the age he was just
before his death on the U.S.S. Enterprise. Kruge, still alive on the Klingon
Bird-of-Prey and angry at the death of his comrades, beams down to the planet.
There, he fights one-on-one with Kirk, eventually falling to his death. The
U.S.S. Enterprise crew, Saavik, and Spock then escape in the Bird-of-Prey,
just as the planet violently explodes, a victim of its own dangerous growth.

Under Sarek's diplomatic protection, the Klingon ship then speeds to Vulcan.
Once there, the risky ceremony fal-tor-pan is performed, fusing Spock's katra,
which resides in McCoy's mind, with the Vulcan's body. With the ceremony
seemingly successful, a revived Spock begins the long journey of remembering
his past and his friends. He questions why the Enterprise crew risked their
lives and careers to rescue him. As his friend Jim reminds him, sometimes the
"needs of the one outweigh the needs of the many."

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Capt. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Cmdr. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Admiral James T. Kirk)

Cast : Allan Miller            (Alien In The Bar)
       Bob Cummings            (Klingon Gunner #1)
       Branscombe Richmond     (Klingon Gunner #2)
       Carl Steven             (Spock, Age 9)
       Cathie Shirriff         (Valkris)
       Christopher Lloyd       (Cmdr. Kruge)
       Conroy Gedeon           (Civilian Agent In The Bar)
       Dame Judith Anderson    (High Priestess T'Lar)
       Dave Cadiente           (Klingon Sergeant)
       Douglas Allan Shanklin  (Prison Guard #2)
       Frank Force             (Elevator Voice)
       Frank Welker            (Voice Of Spock's Screams)
       Gary Faga               (Prison Guard #1)
       Grace Lee Whitney       (Woman In Cafeteria)
       Harve Bennett           (Flight Recorder Voice)
       James B. Sikking        (Capt. Styles)
       Jeanne Mori             (Helmsman On Grissom)
       Joe W. Davis            (Spock, Age 25)
       John Larroquette        (Maltz)
       Judi Durand             (Space Dock Controller Voice)
       Katherine Blum          (Vulcan Child)
       Mario Marcelino         (Communications Officer On Grissom)
       Mark Lenard             (Ambassador Sarek)
       Merritt Butrick         (Dr. David Marcus)
       Miguel Ferrer           (First Officer On Excelsior)
       Paul Sorensen           (Merchantship Capt.)
       Phil Morris             (Trainee Foster)
       Phillip Richard Allen   (Capt. Esteban)
       Robert Hooks            (Admiral Morrow)
       Robin Curtis            (Lt. Saavik)
       Scott McGinnis          (Mr. Adventurer)
       Sharon Thomas           (Waitress In The Bar)
       Stephen Liska           (Torg)
       Stephen Manley          (Spock, Age 15)
       Teresa E. Victor        (Enterprise Computer Voice)
       The Loop Group          (Background Voices)
       Vadia Potenza           (Spock, Age 13)

Written By : Harve Bennett

Directed By : Leonard Nimoy
¡The Voyage Home [TOS #4M]
1986107*o*Data/STOS/mov4.iff
Stardate 8390.0

In 2286, Kirk and company wait in self-imposed exile on Vulcan, monitoring
Spock's progress as he remembers his past. On Earth, the Federation Council is
urged by the Klingon Ambassador to produce Kirk for trial for his actions
against the Klingons on the Genesis Planet. Ambassador Sarek denies the
request to permit Kirk's extradition from Vulcan and defends Kirk before the
Council. The council agrees, yet demands Kirk return to Earth to face his
violation of nine Starfleet regulations. Caught between two different sides,
Kirk finally decides to take the Klingon Bird-of-Prey to Earth to face the
Council's charges. Spock, still suffering slightly from his fal-tor-pan,
decides he must accompany his captain.

The crew arrives to find Earth in turmoil, threatened by a deep space probe
that has drained all power and is vaporizing the oceans, producing a worldwide
cloud cover which begins to block the sun. Because of the enormous storms
ravaging the entire planet, Starfleet warns all approaching spacecraft to keep
their distance.

Spock manages to identify the probe's unusual communication, which turns out
to be a transmission to long-extinct humpback whales. When the probe's signal
is not answered, it increases its output, causing more clouds and even more
storms. Kirk and crew, orbiting the doomed planet, decide that the only way to
save Earth is to time-travel back to the twentieth century, when whales still
existed, and return to the present with a pair of the mammals. With any luck,
then the probe's signal might be answered and Earth spared.

The crew, still piloting the Bird-of-Prey, use the slingshot effect to travel
back in time. They pick up whale songs emanating from the West Coast of North
America. They land the Klingon warbird in a San Francisco park, where thanks
to its cloaking device, the ship is concealed from view. However, the time
traveling damaged the ship's valuable dilithium crystals. The small crew then
splits up, with Uhura and Chekov assigned to locate an atomic reactor for
photons to recharge the ship's power, and McCoy, Scotty and Sulu ordered to
create a tank in the cargo bay that will safely house a pair of whales.

Kirk and Spock, after a humorous trip through twentieth century San Francisco,
locate Dr. Gillian Taylor and her mated pair of whales, George and Gracie. Due
to cut-backs at the Maritime Cetacean Institute, where the whales are on
exhibit, they are due to be released in the sea. Once there, Taylor fears the
pair will be in danger from whale hunters. When Spock performs a Vulcan
mind-meld with the whales, he learns that Gracie is pregnant. Kirk tries to
convince the doctor that he's from the future and that Starfleet will take
good care of her whales, but Taylor is, understandably, incredulous.
Meanwhile, Chekov and Uhura have located enough photons from a reactor to
complete their mission - from the U.S.S. Enterprise CVN 65 aircraft carrier,
no less. Scotty, however, can't beam both crew members back at once. Faced
with a decision, Chekov sends Uhura up with the needed photon collector.
Chekov is then captured and questioned by FBI agents. The Russian escapes, is
chased by Marines, and eventually falls and ends up hospitalized, in critical
condition.

McCoy and Scotty have concurrently arranged a trade for a large piece of
Plexiglas to build a whale tank on board the Klingon ship.

Kirk finally is able to convince Gillian Taylor to help him, first in
retrieving Chekov, then the whales. Joined by McCoy, the three pull off a wild
rescue, springing Chekov from the hospital. With twenty-third century medical
technology, McCoy is able to quickly repair Chekov's otherwise fatal
condition. Kirk says goodbye to Gillian, assuring her that her whales will be
safe and, what's more, will be saving the entire planet in the future. At the
last second of Kirk's transport, she throws her arms around him, transporting
herself to ship along with the captain.

Using the radio frequency provided by Gillian, the crew locate the whales, now
at sea. Just as they are about to transport George and Gracie on board the
Klingon ship, a whaler ship comes into view, threatening the two mammals. The
future of Earth at stake, the Bird-of-Prey valiantly fights off the whaler and
beams up the whales, along with tons of water, to the prepared tank in their
cargo bay.

Off the planet and en route to the Sun for the time-traveling slingshot
maneuver, Spock makes his calculations and the ship is propelled to the
twenty-third century. Arriving at Earth, the ship is rendered powerless by the
probe and crash-lands in San Francisco Bay. Kirk then releases the whales and
they answer the probe. Apparently satisfied, the probe retreats back into deep
space once more.

With Earth safe and the storms gone, Kirk and his crew are brought before the
Federation Council to be reprimanded for stealing and destroying the U.S.S.
Enterprise in the rescue of Spock. Although Kirk disobeyed direct orders and
violated numerous Federation laws, the Council praises the Admiral and his
crew for saving Earth. And even though Kirk is "demoted" to Captain, he is
given the only job he ever wanted - the command of a starship. And the ship
he is given? A new U.S.S. Enterprise, registry NCC-1701-A.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Capt. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Cmdr. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Admiral James T. Kirk)

Cast : Alex Henteloff       (Dr. Nichols)
       Bob Sarlatte         (Waiter)
       Brock Peters         (Admiral Cartwright)
       Catherine Hicks      (Dr. Gillian Taylor)
       David Ellenstein     (Doctor #1)
       Donald W. Zautcke    (Marine Lieutenant)
       Eve Smith            (Elderly Patient)
       Everett Lee          (Cafe Owner)
       Grace Lee Whitney    (Janice Rand)
       Greg Karas           (Intern #2)
       James Menges         (Jogger)
       Jane Wiedlin         (Alien Communications Officer)
       Jane Wyatt           (Amanda)
       Jeff Lester          (FBI Agent)
       Jeffrey Martin       (Electronic Technician)
       Joe Knowland         (Antique Store Owner)
       Joe Lando            (Shore Patrolman)
       John Miranda         (Garbage Man #2)
       John Schuck          (Klingon Ambassador)
       Joseph Naradzay      (Marine Sargeant)
       Judy Levitt          (Doctor #2)
       Kirk Thatcher        (Punk On Bus)
       Majel Barrett        (Christine Chapel)
       Mark Lenard          (Ambassador Sarek)
       Martin Pistone       (Controller #2)
       Michael Berryman     (Starfleet Display Officer)
       Michael Snyder       (Starfleet Communications Officer)
       Mike Brislane        (Saratoga Science Officer)
       Mike Timoney         (Electronic Technician)
       Newell Tarrant       (CDO)
       Nick Ramus           (Saratoga Helmsman)
       Phil Rubinstein      (Garbage Man #1)
       Raymond Singer       (Young Doctor)
       Richard Harder       (Joe)
       Robert Ellenstein    (Federation President)
       Robin Curtis         (Lt. Saavik)
       Scott DeVenney       (Bob Briggs)
       Teresa E. Victor     (Usher)
       Thaddeus Golas       (Controller #1)
       Tom Mustin           (Intern #1)
       Tony Edwards         (Pilot)
       Vijay Amritraj       (Starship Captain)
       Viola Stimpson       (Lady In Tour)

Story By : Harve Bennett
           Leonard Nimoy

Screenplay By : Harve Bennett
                Nicholas Meyer
                Peter Krikes
                Steve Meerson

Directed By : Leonard Nimoy
¡The Final Frontier [TOS #5M]
1989107*o*Data/STOS/mov5.iff
Stardate 8454.1

In 2287, Kirk, Spock and McCoy are enjoying shore leave on Earth at Yosemite
National Park when suddenly their vacation is interrupted by an emergency call
to duty by Starfleet Command. Kirk and his friends learn that the Klingon
General Korrd, Romulan Caithlin Dar and Federation counsel St. John Talbot are
being held hostage on the planet Nimbus III, the planet of galactic peace. The
new U.S.S. Enterprise 1701-A warps to investigate the situation.

Meanwhile, on a nearby Klingon Bird-of-Prey, Captain Klaa learns of the
mission of the U.S.S. Enterprise and the hated Kirk and sees an opportunity
for advancement in the Klingon ranks. In an effort to intercept the U.S.S.
Enterprise, he orders the ship to Nimbus III.

The U.S.S. Enterprise is the first to arrive at Nimbus III and Kirk sends a
shuttlecraft and landing party to the planet's only town. It is soon
discovered that the town is held by a band of scruffy colonists led by a
telepathic insane Vulcan, Sybok. In addition, the team learns that the hostage
situation was just an elaborate ruse to obtain a Federation starship. Sybok
believes that his destiny, the discovery of Sha Ka Ree, meaning "heaven" in
Vulcan, has finally been fulfilled, but he needs a starship for
transportation. Sybok forces the shuttlecraft to take his people to the U.S.S.
Enterprise, where he fights with Kirk for control. Strangely, Spock has the
opportunity to kill the insane Vulcan, yet he doesn't. Forced to explain his
actions, Spock reveals that Sybok is his half-brother, exiled from Vulcan for
choosing emotion over logic. Family relations aside, Kirk and the rest of the
crew are thrown in the starship's brig.

Scotty finally helps Kirk, Spock and McCoy escape from the brig and sends an
urgent message to Starfleet. Yet the message is intercepted by Vixis, Klaa's
first officer.

In an effort to gain valuable followers, Sybok uses his powers to reveal to
McCoy and Spock their inner-most pain, then helps each "heal." Kirk, however,
refuses to allow the Vulcan to use his telepathic powers. Sybok is angered,
yet he knows that he needs Kirk to pilot the U.S.S. Enterprise to "Sha Ka
Ree," and thus a reluctant truce is declared.

The Enterprise sets course for the center of the galaxy, a mythical planet
bound by an energy field - the Great Barrier. Sybok and the captured crew are
successful in penetrating the barrier, and find a small blue planet. Sybok
takes a landing party to the planet's surface, where he suddenly calls out to
God. In a blinding flash of light, an entity appears, questioning him about
the U.S.S. Enterprise. When Kirk asks why a god would need to ask such mundane
questions, he is stricken down with bolts of electricity. McCoy brusquely
tells Sybok that he has trouble believing in a god who enjoys inflicting pain.
This seems to affect Sybok, and the Vulcan slowly begins to doubt his own
quest. Afraid that the entity might be let loose in the galaxy, Sybok tries to
use his telepathic powers to make the creature realize its own pain. The two
grapple and mysteriously disappear underground. Convinced that the entity must
be destroyed at all costs, Kirk orders a photon torpedo be fired at the
planet. The U.S.S. Enterprise transporter can only bring up two crewmen at a
time, so Kirk sends McCoy and Spock. With Kirk left all alone on the planet's
surface, the enraged being suddenly appears and tries to destroy the Captain
for ruining its plans of escape, via the starship, and subsequent galactic
conquest.

Just then, Captain Klaa's ship arrives and uncloaks to fire on the U.S.S.
Enterprise. Spock demands that the first officer, General Korrd, pull rank and
beam Kirk up to the Klingon warbird and fire upon the mysterious being. Spock
transfers with Korrd to the Klingon ship in order to insure that his
"suggestion" is carried out.

With Kirk saved and the evil entity destroyed, there is a reception on board
the U.S.S. Enterprise to celebrate this unusual Klingon-Starfleet cooperation.
Scotty and Korrd enjoy drinks while Klingons cautiously mingle with U.S.S.
Enterprise crew. McCoy suggests that the Great Barrier is in place to keep the
entity boxed in, not to keep others out, which implies an even greater being
at work.

Having saved the galaxy yet again, the three officers return to their
interrupted vacation at Yosemite.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Capt. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Cmdr. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Beverly Hart         (High Priestess)
       Bill Quinn           (McCoy's Father)
       Charles Cooper       (Korrd)
       Cynthia Blaise       (Amanda)
       Cynthia Gouw         (Caithlin Dar)
       David Warner         (St. John Talbot)
       George Murdock       (God)
       Harve Bennett        (Starfleet Chief Of Staff)
       Jonathan Simpson     (Young Sarek)
       Laurence Luckinbill  (Sybok)
       Melanie Shatner      (Yeoman)
       Rex Holman           (J'onn)
       Spice Williams       (Vixis)
       Steve Susskind       (Pitchman)
       Todd Bryant          (Capt. Klaa)

Story By : David Loughery
           Harve Bennett
           William Shatner

Screenplay By : David Loughery

Directed By : William Shatner
¡The Undiscovered Country [TOS #6M]
1991109*o*Data/STOS/mov6.iff
Stardate 9521.6

Following the violent explosion of an energy production facility on the
Klingon moon of Praxis, the collapse of the Klingon Empire is considered
imminent. In 2293, the United Federation of Planets decides that this is the
opportunity to finally negotiate a true, lasting peace with the Klingons.
Chancellor Gorkon, the leader of the Klingon High Council, immediately heads
towards Federation space for the proposed peace conference.

Captain Spock suggests that the U.S.S. Enterprise be Gorkon's escort, forcing
Kirk, who still harbors deep resentment for the brutal death of his son at the
hands of the Klingons, to meet the Chancellor's ship. The two ships rendezvous
peacefully and are proceeding towards the conference when the U.S.S.
Enterprise suddenly appears to fire on the Klingon ship; Federation-uniformed
men beam to the ship and mortally wound Gorkon. After beaming over to the
Klingon ship with Kirk to lend assistance, Doctor McCoy is unable to save
Gorkon's life. McCoy is arrested, along with Kirk, for the murder. After a
quick trial before the Klingon High Council, the two men are sentenced to
imprisonment on a Klingon penal colony. Unknown to the Klingons, however, is
that prior to Kirk's beam-out from the Enterprise, a quick-thinking Spock
surreptitiously attached a homing patch to the back of Kirk's uniform.

On Rura Penthe, the ice-cold Klingon penal planet, Kirk and McCoy meet a
Chameloid, Martia, who approaches the pair with an escape plan. The proposed
plan, however, turns out to be an elaborate ruse designed to lure Kirk and
McCoy into the open, where they can be killed as escapees.

Arriving in the nick of time, the U.S.S. Enterprise tracks Kirk's homing
signal and rescues the two officers just before they are killed by the
colony's nefarious prison warden. Safely aboard, Kirk and McCoy decide to
avoid contact with Starfleet while they work to figure out what happened to
the Klingon Chancellor's ship and to identity Gorkon's true killer. They are
assisted in this investigation by Captain Hikaru Sulu, commander of the U.S.S.
Excelsior.

Meanwhile, Gorkon's daughter, Azetbur, works to continue her father's plan of
peace with the Federation, putting her life in serious danger. Learning of
this, Kirk and Spock become convinced that there is an organized conspiracy
behind the assassination intended to prevent the peace. They set a trap for
the suspected conspirators on the U.S.S. Enterprise. Ultimately, Lieutenant
Valeris, a promising young Vulcan protege of Spock's is revealed to be one of
the leaders of the dissident movement. When Spock performs a Vulcan mind-meld
with Valeris, he finds that both Federation and Klingon conspirators are in
league against the proposed peace.

The Federation ships proceed to the location of the conference, at Khitomer,
but before landing parties are able to beam down both the U.S.S. Enterprise
and the U.S.S. Excelsior are attacked by an invisible vessel - one capable of
firing while remaining cloaked. The audio transmissions of the vessel identify
it as Klingon General Chang's Bird-of-Prey, an unknown prototype. Faced with
an unstoppable new form of technology, the two starships sustain considerable
damage. Racing against time, equipment on the U.S.S. Enterprise usually used
for studying gaseous anomalies is fitted into a photon torpedo. Using some new
technology of their own, the U.S.S. Enterprise tracks the cloaked Bird-of-Prey
and destroys it.

With the orbiting Klingon threat gone and Valeris apprehended, the U.S.S.
Enterprise crew arrives at the peace talks just in time to prevent the planned
assassination of the President of the United Federation of Planets. The
conference continues, and the first steps are taken towards peace between the
Klingon Empire and the Federation.

The U.S.S. Enterprise is recalled by Starfleet Command for decommissioning,
but Kirk, in typical fashion, indulges himself and takes the ship out for one
last voyage before passing the baton to a new generation of explorers destined
"to boldly go where no one has gone before."

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Capt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Capt. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Cmdr. Uhura)
       Walter Koenig     (Lt. Cmdr. Pavel A. Chekov)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Angelo Tiffe         (Excelsior Navigator)
       Boris Krutonog       (Helmsman Lojur)
       Brett Porter         (General Stec)
       Brock Peters         (Admiral Cartwright)
       Carlos Cestero       (Munitions Man)
       Christian Slater     (Excelsior Communications Officer)
       Christopher Plummer  (General Chang)
       Clifford Shegog      (Klingon Officer)
       Darryl Henriques     (Nanclus)
       David Orange         (Sleepy Klingon)
       David Warner         (Chancellor Gorkon)
       Douglas Engalla      (Prisoner at Rura Penthe)
       Edward Clements      (Young Crewman)
       Grace Lee Whitney    (Janice Rand)
       Iman                 (Martia)
       Jeremy Roberts       (Excelsior Officer)
       Jim Boeke            (First Klingon General)
       John Bloom           (Behemoth Alien)
       John Schuck          (Klingon Ambassador)
       Judy Levitt          (Military Aide)
       Katie Jane Johnston  (Martia as a Child)
       Kim Cattrall         (Lt. Valeris)
       Kurtwood Smith       (Federation President)
       Leon Russom          (Chief In Command)
       Mark Lenard          (Sarek)
       Matthias Hues        (Klingon General #2)
       Michael Bofshever    (Excelsior Engineer)
       Michael Dorn         (Klingon Defense Attorney)
       Michael Snyder       (Crewman Dax)
       Paul Rossili         (Brigadier Kerla)
       Rene Auberjonois     (Col. West)
       Robert Easton        (Klingon Judge)
       Rosana DeSoto        (Azetbur)
       Shakti               (ADC)
       Todd Bryant          (Klingon Translator)
       Tom Morga            (The Brute)
       W. Morgan Sheppard   (Klingon Cmdr.)

Story By : Lawrence Konner
           Leonard Nimoy
           Mark Rosenthal

Screenplay By : Denny Martin Flinn
                Nicholas Meyer

Directed By : Nicholas Meyer
¡More Tribbles, More Troubles [TAS #1]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/moretribble.iff
Stardate 5392.4

While returning to a famine-ridden Sherman's planet with a cargo of
quintotriticale, the U.S.S. Enterprise encounters a Klingon warship, commanded
by Captain Koloth, who is detaining the trader Cyrano Jones. Kirk rescues
Jones from the Klingon vessel and discovers him to be carrying a new breed of
tribbles which have been genetically altered to slow their reproductive
process. However, these tribbles are unable to resist the cargo of
quintotriticale the U.S.S. Enterprise is carrying. The U.S.S. Enterprise crew
soon realizes that the consumption causes the tribbles to grow to a tremendous
size. So much so, that Jones' tribble-eating glommer is unable to devour them.

The Klingons return and demand that Kirk hand over Jones, accusing Jones of
stealing the glommer from them. Instead of handing Jones over to the Klingons,
Kirk returns the animal along with some of the tribbles.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : David Gerrold  (Korax)
       James Doohan   (Capt. Koloth)
       Stanley Adams  (Cryano Jones)

Written By : David Gerrold
¡The Infinite Vulcan [TAS #2]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/infinitev.iff
Stardate 5554.4

While visiting the recently discovered planet Phylos, the U.S.S. Enterprise
landing party discovers an apparently abandoned city. While exploring the city
Sulu picks up a plant and is poisoned. As the landing party tries to save
Sulu, the alien species that inhabit the planet approach and save Sulu's life.
Upon further investigation of the alien creatures, who are plantlike beings
called Phylosians, the crew discovers that the poison that affected Sulu was
accidentally brought to the planet by a visitor who subsequently worked to
find a cure. The Phylosians call this visitor "Master" and "Savior".

The landing party eventually discover that this visitor was actually a Terran
scientist by the name of Dr. Starros Keniclius who has since died. Now a giant
clone of Dr. Starros Keniclius, by the name of Keniclius Five, has taken his
place. The giant wishes to clone Spock to create an intergalactic peacemaker.
Ignoring Kirk's insistence that the Universe has become a virtually peaceful
conglomeration of worlds, Keniclius Five clones Spock, crippling the Vulcan
almost to the point of death. Kirk realizes the only way to save Spock is to
recite aspects of Vulcan philosophy on life and death to Keniclius Five. Kirk
convinces the clone that the new Spock is but a copy and not the original. The
clone Spock saves the other's life through a Vulcan mind meld and the
duplicate remains on the planet with Keniclius to revitalize that world's
civilization.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Agmar / Keniclius 5 / Lt. Arex)

Written By : Walter Koenig
¡Yesteryear [TAS #3]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/yesteryear.iff
Stardate 5373.4

By using the Guardian of Forever, Kirk, Spock, and the historian Erikson
explore the planet Orion's past. However, upon returning to the present, no
one seems to recognize Mr. Spock; the U.S.S. Enterprise first officer for the
past five years has been an Andorian named Thelin. A search of the U.S.S.
Enterprise's memory bank reveals that Spock, the son of Sarek and Amanda died
while still a child; his death caused the couple to breakup.

Spock recalls that during his "kahs-wan" - a Vulcan coming-of-age ritual -
Selek, Spock's distant cousin, had saved his life. Spock realizes that to put
the present right again he must return to the past and become his own cousin
to save himself.

Returning to the Vulcan of his childhood through the Guardian, Spock presents
himself to his younger self as Selek, and subsequently saves the boy's life.
In the process young Spock's pet "sehlat" is mortally injured. The boy chooses
to compassionately end his pet's suffering and in doing so sets the young
half-human, half-Vulcan on a path toward embracing Vulcan traditions. Upon
returning to the present, Spock finds the timeline and his place on the U.S.S.
Enterprise restored.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan      (The Healer / Thelin)
       Keith Sutherland  (Sepek)
       Majel Barrett     (Amanda / Grey)
       Mark Lenard       (Sarek)

Written By : D.C. Fontana
¡Beyond The Farthest Star [TAS #4]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/fartheststar.iff
Stardate 5521.3

Responding to radio emissions near the edge of the known universe, the U.S.S.
Enterprise is dragged off course by Questar M-17, an imploded negative star
mass. The Enterprise manages to establish itself in orbit around Questar M-17
and encounters a strange starship inhabited by an evil shapeless alien.
Further investigation reveals that the ship's engineers had failed to remove
the creature before attempting to destroy their own vessel. Eventually, the
creature takes control of the Enterprise. Kirk and Spock devise a plan to
steer the U.S.S. Enterprise toward Questar M-17, tricking the creature into
believing that the Enterprise will be destroyed. The creature flees for its
life while the Enterprise frees itself from Questar's gravity pull by
employing the slingshot effect, leaving the creature to orbit forever around
the star.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : John Winston  (Lt. Kyle)

Written By : Samuel A. Peeples
¡The Survivor [TAS #5]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/survivor.iff
Stardate 5143.3

Near the Romulan/Federation neutral zone, a long-lost philanthropist, Carter
Winston, is discovered on board a damaged one-man vessel. He is reunited with
his fiancee, Lieutenant Anne Nored, on board the Enterprise. Immediately
following their reunion, Winston tells her that he has changed and can no
longer marry her. The Enterprise computer reveals that Winston is actually a
shape-shifting Vendorian. Winston eventually takes the Captain's form and
orders Sulu to steer the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone. Kirk discovers the
ruse and orders the ship out of the Neutral Zone.

Romulan ships, having been advised of the breach of the Neutral Zone, surround
the Enterprise. The Vendorian, disguised as an Enterprise crewman, damages the
deflector shield, which requires two hours to repair. Later , the creature
reveals his identity to Nored, explaining that her former fiancee is dead but
since he had absorbed so many emotions from human males, he indeed can love
her.

The Romulans proceed to attack the U.S.S. Enterprise. Realizing that he has
put his love in jeopardy by destroying the ship's shields, the shape-shifter
forms himself into a deflector shield around the ship. After the Romulans
retreat, the Vendorian reveals that he is a spy for the Romulan Empire, but he
could not allow Nored to die in battle. Kirk informs him that he will stand
trial but his efforts to save the ship will be considered. Nored tells him
that he is much like her former lover and that he will enjoy life on Earth,
perhaps even together with her.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan      (Gabler / Romulan Cmdr.)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel / Lt. M'Ress)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Anne Nored)
       Ted Knight        (Carter Winston / Vendorian)

Written By : James Schmerer
¡The Lorelei Signal [TAS #6]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/lorelei.iff
Stardate 5483.7

The Enterprise enters an uncharted sector of space where Federation and
Klingon vessels have been reported missing every 27 years. While in the
Taurean system signals begin to affect the male crew, causing them to
hallucinate about beautiful women in peaceful surroundings. Kirk, Spock, and
McCoy beam down to the source of the signals. After arriving on the planet
they are taken prisoner and rendered unconscious by a group of beautiful,
golden skinned women. Scotty takes command of Enterprise but begins to act
peculiar himself.

Upon waking, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy discover that they are aging rapidly as a
result of life-draining headbands they are forced to wear. McCoy administers
cortropine to counter the aging process while Spock, having obtained a
communicator, unsuccessfully tries to contact the ship.

On board the Enterprise, Uhura has taken command due to Scotty's irrational
behavior, while Nurse Chapel acts as Chief Medical Officer. Uhura orders an
all-female landing party to transport down to rescue the men. The siren women
explain to them that they had fled from a dying planet only to arrive on
Taurus II where they encountered the life-draining force. The women developed
a biological resistance to the force, effective only if they can replenish
their own life-force every 27 years. Thus they capture men to drain their
energy. The landing party eventually beams the male landing party back up to
the ship just in time to replenish their life-force. Kirk agrees to transport
the women to a safe world where they will again prosper.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : Bruce Watson      (Crewman Green)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Arex)
       Majel Barrett     (Christine Chapel / Theela)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Dara / Security Officer Davison)

Written By : Margaret Armen
¡One Of Our Planets Is Missing [TAS #7]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/planetsmissing.iff
Stardate 5371.3

The Enterprise crew learns that a massive, planet-destroying extragalactic
entity has entered Federation space and threatens every planet in the galaxy.
The starship intercepts the gaseous form in an inhabited planetary sector.
Almost immediately the cloud envelops the planet Alondra, breaking it into
small pieces in seconds. The cloud proceeds on a direct course for planet
Mantilles, inhabited by nearly 100 million people. Due to its proximity to the
cloud, the Enterprise is pulled inside and is threatened by an antimatter
barrage.

The ship's shields barely hold together while Spock discovers that the cloud
is a living entity with a brain. He also discovers that they can escape
through the top of the entity if they act quickly. The Enterprise travels
through the creature's body while antimatter continues to drain the ship's
power. Scotty, however, is able to create a power regeneration system by using
part of the entity's body. Kirk realizes that the only way to save the planet
may be to kill the creature by exploding the Enterprise while inside. Instead,
Spock mind-melds with the cloud and allows the creature to see glimpses of
human life. The creature comes to understand that its food - planets -
contains living creatures. The cloud allows the Enterprise to leave peacefully
and agrees to depart the galaxy.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Lt. Arex)

Written By : Marc Daniels
¡Mudd's Passion [TAS #8]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/muddspassion.iff
Stardate 4978.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise receives orders to find Harry Mudd, a Federation outlaw,
on the planet Motherlode; Mudd is accused of selling a fake love potion to
miners. Upon the U.S.S. Enterprise's arrival, Mudd demonstrates the potion on
a woman who Spock discovers to actually be a reptilian illusion. Angered by
this the miners begin to attack Mudd, but he is rescued by the U.S.S.
Enterprise. Aboard ship, and after convincing Nurse Chapel to try the potion
on Spock, Mudd steals a shuttlecraft. When Chapel discovers that the potion
doesn't actually work, she becomes bitter and sets out to confront Mudd.
During a fight between Mudd and Chapel, special love crystals are broken near
an air vent and permeate throughout the ship.

Without warning, the delayed potion begins to affect Spock. Shortly, the
potion begins to affect the entire crew. Spock becomes so enamored with Chapel
that he will do anything to rescue her. Kirk accompanies him to find Mudd, but
are attacked on the planet by large rock creatures. Unable to transport to the
vessel because of the potion's affect on the crew, Kirk uses the crystals to
make the creatures become docile and loving. Eventually the potion wears off
and the crew beam everyone back to the ship, but then the potion's after
effects cause hatred and animosity among the crew. Mudd is placed in the brig,
where he confesses to other con jobs and is once again sent away for
rehabilitation.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan     (Lt. Arex)
       Majel Barrett    (Christine Chapel / Lora / Lt. M'Ress)
       Roger C. Carmel  (Harcourt Fenton Mudd)

Written By : Stephen Kandel
¡The Magicks Of Megas-Tu [TAS #9]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/megastu.iff
Stardate 1254.4

While investigating the theory of creation, the Enterprise is caught inside an
energy/matter tornado and pulled to the center of the galaxy. All computer
systems fail and the crew begins to lose consciousness when a devil-like
creature named Lucien appears on the bridge. The creature repairs the ship's
systems and takes the crew to explore his planet, Megas-Tu, but almost
immediately returns them to the ship.

The crew begin to experiment with magic after the encounter, much to Spock's
dismay. The Megans begin to take notice of the crew and return to the ship in
phantasm form. They return the Enterprise bridge crew to their planet in a
witch-hunt trial where Lucien is accused of bringing evil to Megas-Tu.

Spock and Kirk defend the crew and Lucien, but their arguments fail and Kirk
is forced to use his new magic against the prosecutor. Kirk explains that the
Megans can only win if they become like the Earthlings they fear. Kirk then
tells the jury that he will give his own life for an alien's rights, which
impresses the Megans. They learn that Lucien was the basis for Earth's
original conception of the devil, and the Megans, realizing that the
Enterprise's visit to their dimension was an accident, help the crew to return
to their galaxy.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Lucien / Megan Prosecutor)

Written By : Larry Brody
¡The Time Trap [TAS #10]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/timetrap.iff
Stardate 5267.2

While exploring the Delta Triangle, where many starships have disappeared, the
Enterprise is attacked by several Klingon vessels. During the fight, the
Enterprise and a Klingon ship slip into a space-time warp where a starship
graveyard is discovered to hold ships from all over the galaxy. The Klingon
ship fires at the Enterprise but the torpedo is neutralized and the two ships
captains are brought to a trial by the inhabitants of this dimension, called
Elysia. The council is made up of all races from across the universe and lead
by a Vulcan, Xerius. He explains that no one has been able to escape from this
area, so the descendants of the crews have learned to co-exist in a peaceful
state. Violence is not permitted and all weaponry is immediately neutralized.

Scotty discovers that the timewarp is disintegrating the Enterprise's
dilithium crystals, and insists that they must leave the trap soon or they
will be powerless. The Klingons agree to link ships and cooperate by sharing
warp power and personnel to escape. However, Spock learns that the Klingon
Captain, Kor, wants to destroy the Enterprise when they break free of the time
warp by using a specially calibrated explosive device in the warp drive. The
Enterprise and Klingon crew celebrate their impending escape but when a
Klingon slips away to plant the explosive, Kirk stops her and diffuses the
bomb. The two ships leave the timewarp and separate, with Kor claiming full
credit for saving the two vessels.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Gabler)
       John Colicos  (Capt. Kor)

Written By : Joyce Perry
¡Slaver Weapon [TAS #11]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/slaver.iff
Stardate 4187.3

In the shuttlecraft Copernicus, Spock, Uhura, and Sulu are en-route to
Starbase 25 to deliver a stasis box - a rare artifact of the Slaver culture
- which stops time inside so any object can last forever. The now-extinct
Slavers used these objects to carry weapons, valuables, and other scientific
instruments and data. The boxes can detect each other and evidence shows that
another device is located nearby. Spock begins to investigate. The shuttle
lands on an ice planet where hostile Kzinti lie in ambush with an empty stasis
box. The Kzinti once controlled the entire empire but now are bound to keeping
peace. However, many Kzinti still take part in raiding Federation shipping and
seek Slaver weapons to regain control of their empire.

The Kzinti take the shuttle crew hostage in an effort to take the box and its
contents. The Kzinti leader obtains the weapon, but while tampering with it he
enables the crew to escape. Spock steals back the weapon, but Uhura is
recaptured. After Sulu creates an explosion with the weapon, it is recaptured
by the Kzinti, who are killed when the device self-destructs.

Crew : George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)

Written By : Larry Niven
¡The Jihad [TAS #12]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/jihad.iff
Stardate 5683.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives at the Vedala asteroid, where Kirk and Spock are
summoned to learn about a stolen religious artifact that could ignite a
galaxy-wide holy war, a jihad. A team of specialists are called in to recover
the item with Kirk and Spock: Tchar - the hereditary prince of the Skorr,
Sord - a powerful reptilian, a master lockpick - Em/3/Green, and Lara - a
great hunter.

The Vedalan tells the team that the artifact dates back two centuries, when
Tchar's people were fighters and a religious leader, Alar, came to teach
fundamentals of peace. Alar's brain patterns were preserved in the sculpture,
the "Soul of the Skorr." Now the device has been stolen and is hidden on the
very unstable "mad planet." The Vedala transports the group to the planet
where they encounter harsh weather, quakes, volcanic lava flow, and severe
winds. After barely escaping a lava river, the team finds itself nearing a
position that Tchar had originally spotted from the air.

Tchar flies ahead to investigate the fortress in which the object is kept.
Meanwhile, Kirk and Lara scout ahead to explore the terrain. Rejoining the
group, they head for the fortress on foot to rendezvous with Tchar. Upon
reaching the structure, Em/3/Green picks the lock, but the team is attacked by
a group of mechanical birds who are protecting the building. They narrowly
make it inside and after surviving a set of traps, they find the sculpture,
but conclude that it must have been Tchar who originally stole the object.
Tchar admits his treachery, saying that his people have become a docile race,
and the ensuing war will make them great again. Tchar tells them that their
mission must always remain secret so that no one will learn about the
treachery. Kirk and Spock return to the U.S.S. Enterprise noting that,
remarkably, only two minutes had passed since they beamed to the asteroid.

Crew : George Takei     (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : David Gerrold  (3/Em/Green)

Written By : Stephen Kandel
¡The Ambergris Element [TAS #13]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/element.iff
Stardate 5499.9

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives to study the planet Argo - a water-based planet
where earthquakes caused the land masses to sink - for the benefit of other
Federation worlds that will encounter similar quakes. The crew lands in a
specially designed aqua-shuttle but is immediately attacked by a sea monster
and Kirk and Spock become trapped in the monster's grip.

Five days later, McCoy, Scott, and Lt. Clayton find the missing officers; they
have been transformed into water breathers by the monster. Kirk and Spock
explore the submerged Argo and find a group of inhabitants who hate any
air-breathers. Hesitantly, the Aquans agree to perform surgery to return Kirk
and Spock to normal, but when Scotty dives down to warn of an impending quake,
they become fearful of air-breathing spies. Kirk and Spock are deemed
treacherous and are sentenced to death. Rila, a water breather, agrees to help
them if they will in turn help him find a buried city and a way to reverse the
mutation.

They are successful and obtain the necessary medicine to help Kirk and Spock,
but Kirk nearly dies from the vaccination. In orbit, the U.S.S. Enterprise
uses its phasers to hit the uninhabited sections of the planet in an attempt
to move the quake's epicenter away from the Aquan city. Grateful for saving
their lives, the young Aquans make their records available to the Federation
and decide to use the new found medicine to reverse their water-breathing
mutations and resume life above ground.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Lt. Arex)

Written By : Margaret Armen
¡Once Upon A Planet [TAS #14]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/onceplanet.iff
Stardate 5591.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise returns to the amusement planet where the crew had once
taken shore leave. The crew begin imagining their fantasies when things go
wrong: McCoy envisions a southern Earth plantation, but instead the Queen of
Hearts appears screaming "Off with his head!" followed by the arrival of a
spear throwing deck of cards. When Uhura tries to rescue McCoy, she is
captured by a hovercraft robot. McCoy informs Kirk of the dangerous situation,
whereupon all crew members are recalled to the starship.

Realizing that Uhura is still trapped on the planet, Kirk attempts to contact
the planet's Keeper. Kirk's landing party discovers the Keeper's tombstone,
and notices that the planet, lacking the Keeper's influence, has become a
dangerous world run by robots. The robots begin to pester the crew and the
orbiting Enterprise.

Deep underground, Uhura tries to outwit the planet's master computer, while
Kirk and Spock trick it into allowing them passage into the inner caves. The
crew convince the computer of its usefulness as a peaceful and creative
conscience and it ends the malfunctions on the planet and starship. While the
crew returns to enjoy their shore leave, Spock continues discussions with the
master computer.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan      (Gabler / Lt. Arex)
       Majel Barrett     (Lt. M'Ress)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Alice In Wonderland)

Written By : Chuck Menville
             Len Jenson
¡The Terratin Incident [TAS #15]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/terratin.iff
Stardate 5577.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise receives a garbled message while exploring the dead
supernova, Arachna. The only comprehensible portion of the signal, which
emanates from the star Cepheus, is the word "terratin." Upon investigation the
U.S.S. Enterprise encounters a planet of crystalline structure, barraged by
volcanic activity. While in orbit, a flash of light passes through the ship,
paralyzing the crew.

Then the crew begins to realize that all organic matter on the ship is
shrinking; all body molecules are degenerating. Spock calculates that in a
matter of minutes the entire crew will stand centimeters tall. By using
man-made ladders, the crew gets to the bridge consoles and use their
collective strength to press the transporter buttons. Kirk transports to the
planet's surface and immediately grows to full size, since the transporter can
change all matter to previously detailed size and shape. While on the planet,
Kirk encounters a miniature city, but is shortly beamed back to the ship by
the transporter's automatic settings.

Upon returning, he discovers that his crew has been transported off the ship
to the planet surface. Kirk threatens the miniature city, demanding the crew's
return. The leader informs Kirk that the lightning attack was the only way to
get the attention of the starship, because their city is being threatened by
volcanic activity. Spock discovers the Terratin natives to be mutated
descendants of a missing scientific expedition; the survivors had named the
planet Terra 10. The crew is transported back to the ship, but since the
Terratins cannot be restored to their original size, they and their entire
city are beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise to be taken to a more stable
planet.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan   (Lt. Arex / Mendant)
       Majel Barrett  (Christine Chapel)

Written By : Paul Schneider
¡The Eye Of The Beholder [TAS #16]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/beholder.iff
Stardate 5501.2

The disappearance of a scientific team lures the U.S.S. Enterprise to
investigate near Lactra VII. The Starship Ariel is located there, abandoned,
with the Captain having transported to the planet's surface. The U.S.S.
Enterprise crew beams down to discover a series of unusually juxtaposed
environments. On the planet the crew meets the Lactrans, a group of twenty
foot slugs with intelligent capacities far beyond their own; they capture the
U.S.S. Enterprise crew and imprison them along with the three remaining Ariel
crew members. Ariel's Lieutenant Randolph has become ill, but the Lactrans are
unaware, as their methods of communication are highly sophisticated.

Spock can partially read the Lactran thoughts; he realizes that they are much
more advanced than Vulcans and they are amused by his attempts at
communication. Spock tricks a Lactran child to bring him a communicator and
medical kit that are located outside a force field. Kirk contacts the ship and
they are beamed up along with the child. On the starship, the child reads all
the information contained in the library computer, but the child's parents are
worried and almost kill Kirk in an attempt to contact him. Scotty beams down
with the child, who learns that humans are not pets for Lactran amusement. The
child informs the other Lactrans, who release the crew from confinement and
the ships leaves with a message from the Lactrans - "humans may return when
they grow up, in 20 or 30 centuries."

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan   (Lt. Arex / Lt. Cmdr. Tom Markel)
       Majel Barrett  (Randi Bryce)

Written By : David P. Harmon
¡Bem [TAS #17]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/bem.iff
Stardate 7403.6

The U.S.S. Enterprise is hosting Commander Ari bn Bem of planet Pandro as an
independent observer of the Federation. Starfleet is eager to open diplomatic
relations with the Pandronians, due to their advanced medical knowledge.
Though he has not joined the crew on previous missions, Bem accompanies a
landing party to explore Delta Theta III and, due to his non-violent nature,
secretly replaces their weapons with non-functioning ones.

The planet is populated by preindustrial aborigines; the Federation is
interested in gathering information about the world for research purposes.
While walking through the dense terrain, the crew scans lifeforms emanating
from the forest and Bem immediately runs toward them against direct orders.
Bem passes through the thick rain forest by splitting into several body parts
and floating through the cracks. Kirk and Spock split off but are unable to
track Bem through the dense woods. They later discover that he has been
captured by a group of angry aborigines.

Scott and Sulu beam back to the U.S.S. Enterprise and discover a force field
developing around the small village, but they cannot contact Kirk or Spock. At
night, Kirk and Spock attempt to rescue Bem from the natives but are also
captured. Bem explains that he took Starfleet equipment because he dislikes
violence and wanted to see how the captain could react without such devices.
He returns the devices to Kirk and Spock, who manage escape only to be
paralyzed by a supernatural force surrounding the area.

The entity tells them not to interfere with her "children," the people of this
world. Bem escapes and Kirk and Spock are again captured. The entity demands
that they leave immediately but Kirk tells Spock that they cannot leave
without Bem. They arrange a search party to beam down, now that the entity has
permitted communications. Bem is found and he realizes that he has failed in
his mission and must die. The entity tells him he will not be killed because
people must learn from their errors. The crew returns to the ship, where Spock
ponders the existence of such a God-like entity and how they are all really
children to the universe.

Crew : George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan   (Cmdr. Ari bn Bem / Lt. Arex)
       Majel Barrett  (Lt. M'Ress)

Written By : David Gerrold
¡Albatross [TAS #18]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/albatross.iff
Stardate 5275.6

The U.S.S. Enterprise arrives at Dramia I to deliver medical supplies when Dr.
McCoy is arrested for mass slaughter and imprisoned. Nineteen years prior, the
doctor had created an inoculation program for a Saurian virus on Dramia II,
but immediately following his departure a plague virtually wiped out the
entire population.

Kirk, aware of the swift Dramian justice system, worries about McCoy's future
while McCoy thinks that the plague may have been his fault. Kirk and Spock
begin an investigation into the plague and realize they must go to Dramia II
to draw some conclusions. En route, they are pursued by Demos, the Dramian
head of security. The U.S.S. Enterprise entraps the Dramian ship and holds it
impounded. Forcing Demos to accompany them, the ship passes through an
orbiting aurora and the three beam down to the planet.

On the planet, they pursue a plague survivor, Kol-Tai. When they finally catch
up to him, he tells them of McCoy's courage and ability to save the Dramians
from the virus, nineteen years ago. Kol-Tai agrees to testify of McCoy's
behalf, but the crew must return to Dramia I quickly or it will be too late.

Complicating matters, Kol-Tai brings the plague on board the U.S.S.
Enterprise, and infects the entire crew, except an immune Spock. Kol-Tai may
not live long enough to testify, while Demos still believes McCoy guilty but
has himself contracted the fatal disease. Spock illegally breaks McCoy out of
prison to cure the plague on the U.S.S. Enterprise. On board McCoy discovers
that he is innocent and that the aurora recently encountered is the actual
cause of the plague. By using blood samples from the infected, McCoy cures the
plague and shares the information with the Dramians. Demos and the Dramian
government agrees to dismiss the unorthodox jailbreak and drop the charges.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Kol-tai / Supreme Prefect)

Written By : Dario Finelli
¡The Pirates Of Orion [TAS #19]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/pirates.iff
Stardate 6334.1

A dreaded disease, choriocytosis, strikes the U.S.S. Enterprise. All except
Spock are cured, as the illness is fatal only to Vulcans. With the starship on
course to a Starfleet Academy dedication ceremony on Deneb V, Spock realizes
that he has as little as three days to live. The cure for the disease is
strobolin, which is found on only a few worlds in the galaxy, the closest of
which, Beta Canopus, is four days away.

The U.S.S. Potemkin obtains the drug and transports it to the U.S.S. Huron, en
route to the Enterprise. Without warning, the U.S.S. Huron is attacked by a
vessel of Orion designation; the drug and a cargo of dilithium crystals are
stolen. The U.S.S. Enterprise encounters the Orion ship in a volatile asteroid
field by detecting the dilithium crystals in the ship's cargo bay. Kirk
attempts to negotiate for the drug in exchange for not mentioning the stolen
dilithium crystals, but the Orions' suspect a ruse. Kirk agrees to meet the
Orion captain on an asteroid knowing that it might be a trap, but worth the
risk for Spock's life.

The Orion captain arrives carrying a bomb capable of destroying the entire
asteroid but Scotty beams the explosive to the U.S.S. Enterprise and
discharges it. Scotty then beams up the two captains and forces the Orion
captain to stand trial for piracy. With the medicine in hand, Spock is saved.

Crew : DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan     (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy    (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner  (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan   (Lt. Arex)
       Majel Barrett  (Christine Chapel)

Written By : Howard Weinstein
¡The Practical Joker [TAS #20]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/joker.iff
Stardate 3183.3

While studying an asteroid, the U.S.S. Enterprise is attacked by three Romulan
vessels which claim that the Federation ship has trespassed into Romulan
space. The U.S.S. Enterprise hides from the Romulans in a gaseous energy field
to avoid the close range barrage from the war ships.

The gas from the cloud enters the Enterprise's computer systems and affects
the functions of the computer. When the ship leaves for repairs the computer
proceeds to play practical jokes on the crew by altering various ship
functions, so that drinks leak and silverware bends. Spock is humiliated by
his own microscope, and Scott is pelted with fruits and pies from a food
dispenser. The crew discover the source of the jokes when outrageous laughter
is heard over the intercom. Sulu, McCoy and Uhura are trapped in a recreation
room and Scott is unable to fix the logic circuits because gravity has been
shut off. Life support systems are replaced by laughing gas, which causes pain
to Vulcans.

The ship returns itself to the neutral zone, thereby inciting a Romulan
attack. The ship then plays a practical joke on the Romulans by creating a
balloon-shaped like the U.S.S. Enterprise. Kirk tricks the ship back into the
energy field, which is followed closely by the Romulans. While in the energy
field the computer is returned to normal but the Romulan vessel begins to be
affected by the same symptoms. Kirk decides to wait a bit before telling the
Romulans how to remove their practical joker.

Crew : George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan   (Lt. Arex / Romulan Cmdr.)
       Majel Barrett  (Lt. M'Ress)

Written By : Chuck Menville
¡How Sharper Than A Serpent's Tooth [TAS #21]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/sertooth.iff
Stardate 6063.4

A mysterious probe that scanned a Federation system and sent a signal into
outer space is pursued by the U.S.S. Enterprise, which follows its propulsion
trail to see if it can catch the probe. While tacking the probe, the
Enterprise encounters an alien vessel that is surrounded by a magnificent
energy field which proceeds to encompass the Federation ship. The alien ship
transforms itself into the shape of a large feathered serpent which reveals
itself as Kulkukan of ancient Mayan-Aztec legend. Upset over being forgotten
by Earthlings, Kulkukan transports Kirk, Scott, McCoy, and Ensign Dawson
Walking Bear to his ship to solve an enigmatic puzzle. If they succeed,
Kulkukan will reveal himself. If they fail, the crew will all perish.

The four crew members are transported to an Earth-like city filled with many
cultures and must force a light source to strike a certain space on an ancient
pyramid. When they accomplish the task, Kulkukan appears as the winged
serpent, alleging to be their master. Transported to an ominous "life-room,"
the crew members notice a variety of creatures from around the galaxy,
including the ferocious, but now peaceful, Capellan power-cat. Kirk explains
that they cannot accept Kulkukan as their master, despite his contributions to
mankind.

On the U.S.S. Enterprise, Spock discovers a way to break the energy field
surrounding the ship, distracting Kulkukan from the other crewmen. The men
release the animals from their cages, thereby creating a chaos which Kulkukan
is unable to control. The power-cat traps Kulkukan and prepares to kill him;
Kulkukan is forced to reveal himself as a mortal. Kirk saves Kulkukan and thus
teaches him a valuable lesson about human survival. Kulkukan leaves as an old,
broken mortal, and Kirk decides that the price of infinite knowledge is to
high to pay.

Crew : DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)

Cast : James Doohan  (Kulkukan / Lt. Arex)

Written By : David Wise
             Russell Bates
¡The Counter-Clock Incident [TAS #22]
1973025*o*Data/STAS/counterclock.iff
Stardate 6770.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise is escorting Commodore Robert April and his wife Dr.
Sarah April, the first captain and chief medical officer of the U.S.S.
Enterprise, to Commodore April's retirement ceremonies on Babel. While en
route, an alien vessel passes the U.S.S. Enterprise at warp 36 toward heading
directly into the Beta Niobe nova. Locking onto the alien ship with the
tractor beam, the U.S.S. Enterprise is dragged along, unable to break free;
both ships fall into the nova and arrive in an antimatter universe where time
flows backwards.

The alien ship's pilot, Karla Five, is an explorer from the reverse universe
who accidentally became lost in our universe. He leads the U.S.S. Enterprise
to his home world of Arret to help find a way back into normal space. On
Arret, the crew encounter an old man, who is Karla Five's son, and a baby, his
father. The crew begin to notice that they too are getting younger as they
remain in the negative universe.

In time they discover a dead star that corresponds to the nova in the positive
universe; it is the gateway for the U.S.S. Enterprise's return. Though Karla
Five's ship is strong enough to pull the starship through the nova, the U.S.S.
Enterprise crew is now too young to pilot it. Commodore April, now a young
handsome man, takes command of the ship steering it back through the nova.
Using the transporter, April restores the crew to their proper age. The Aprils
consider remaining young, but instead decide that they have lived their lives
to the fullest. Once back to their original ages, the Federation decides to
change the mandatory retirement age and the Aprils are able to continue their
careers.

Crew : James Doohan      (Lt. Cmdr. Montgomery Scott)
       DeForest Kelley   (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Nichelle Nichols  (Lt. Uhura)
       Leonard Nimoy     (Cmdr. Spock)
       William Shatner   (Capt. James T. Kirk)
       George Takei      (Lt. Hikaru Sulu)

Cast : James Doohan  (Lt. Arex)

Written By : John Culver
¡Encounter At Farpoint, Part 1 [TNG #1]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/encounter1.iff
Stardate 41153.7

The new U.S.S. Enterprise and its crew set out "to boldly go where no one has
gone before." Their first mission is to explore the mystery surrounding the
creation of the Farpoint station located on planet Deneb IV. While trying to
negotiate a friendly agreement for Starfleet to use this energy-powered base,
Captain Picard and his crew also attempt to discover how the Bandi inhabitants
of Deneb IV built the station.

En route to Farpoint, Captain Picard and his crew first meet "Q." The
mysterious and powerful being denounces the human race as barbarians and
challenges the crew of the Enterprise to disprove his belief. If Picard and
his crew are not persuasive in their arguments, they will be sentenced to
death.

Picard defends himself and mankind by explaining that, unlike Q, humans have
learned not to prosecute and judge things they don't understand. Hearing the
words "prosecute" and "judge," Q announces that he knows humans all too well.
He leaves the Enterprise in a blinding flash, stating that "preparations" must
be made.

After separating the saucer to protect the families on board, Picard stays
behind to face Q. Suddenly, the ship begins shaking as it did when Q first
appeared, and after a bright flash of light, Picard, Data, Troi and Tasha find
themselves in a 21st century courtroom. When the bailiff announces the judge,
the crew is shocked to find Q sitting on the bench!

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Cary-Hiroyuki    (Mandarin Bailiff)
       Chuck Hicks      (Druged Military Officer)
       Colm Meaney      (Battle Bridge Conn)
       David Erskine    (Bandi Shopkeeper)
       DeForest Kelley  (Dr. Leonard H. McCoy)
       Jimmy Ortega     (Lt. Torres)
       John de Lancie   (Q)
       Michael Bell     (Groppler Zorn)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : D.C. Fontana
             Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Corey Allen
¡Encounter At Farpoint, Part 2 [TNG #2]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/encounter2.iff
Stardate 41153.8

At the trial, Q continues to denounce humans, while Picard defends his race
and convinces Q that the upcoming mission at Farpoint will be the perfect
opportunity to prove his point. Q accepts the Captain's proposal but gives him
only 24 hours and a reminder that failing this test will mean death for the
Enterprise crew.

While docked at Farpoint, Picard is introduced to his new first officer,
Commander Riker, and the rest of his crew. As they begin to investigate the
station, they are startled by the seemingly magical qualities of the planet
where one's wish becomes reality.

While the away team searches through tunnels beneath the Farpoint station, an
unidentified ship begins firing on the old Bandi city, causing heavy damage
and numerous casualties. As it turns out, the ship is a living alien being who
is attacking the city because the people of Deneb IV have captured its mate.

Not only have the Bandi been holding the being against its will, but they have
used its energy source, which converts energy into matter, to create the
Farpoint station and its magical qualities.

After assisting the reunion of the estranged aliens, the crew learns that it
has passed Q's test. Relieved, they head off for their next mission.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : David Erskine    (Bandi Shopkeeper)
       Evelyn Guerrero  (Female Ensign)
       John de Lancie   (Q)
       Michael Bell     (Groppler Zorn)
       Timothy Dang     (Main Bridge Security)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : D.C. Fontana
             Gene Roddenberry

Directed By : Corey Allen
¡The Naked Now [TNG #3]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/nakednow.iff
Stardate 41209.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise and crew are summoned to investigate strange occurrences
aboard the starship U.S.S. Tsiolkovsky, which has been monitoring the collapse
of a red-orange star. Once aboard the troubled research vessel, the away team
finds a ship littered with food, wine, discarded clothes, several frozen
bodies and no survivors.

Unknowingly, Geordi energizes back aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise carrying a
contagious, deadly contaminant that begins to infect the entire Starfleet
crew, making them feel and act as if they were intoxicated and mentally
unstable.

While Dr. Crusher searches for an antidote, chaos erupts when Wesley takes
control of the ship.

Finally, Lieutenant Commander Data and Chief Engineer MacDougal, fighting the
effects of the ailment, manage to get control of the ship. While Dr. Crusher
administers the remedy to the mysterious contaminant, the crew, with Wesley's
assistance, diverts the ship from further danger when a piece of the star's
surface breaks off and heads directly toward the U.S.S. Enterprise. Captain
Picard commends his crew for a job well done.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Benjamin W.S. Lum  (Assistant Engineer Jim Shimoda)
       Brooke Bundy       (Chief Engineer Sarah MacDougal)
       David Renan        (Conn)
       Kenny Koch         (Kissing Crewman)
       Michael Rider      (Transporter Chief)
       Skip Stellrecht    (Engineering Crewman)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : J. Michael Bingham

Story By : J. Michael Bingham
           John D.F. Black

Directed By : Paul Lynch
¡Code Of Honor [TNG #4]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/codehonor.iff
Stardate 41235.25

The U.S.S. Enterprise and crew travel to the planet Ligon II to negotiate a
treaty for the use of a rare vaccine needed on Stryris IV.

The Ligonians board the starship appearing friendly, but startle the crew by
ruthlessly kidnapping Tasha. To get Tasha back, Captain Picard must adhere to
a strict Ligonian code of honor, which results in Tasha fighting for her life
at the hands of her jealous kidnapper's wife.

When diplomacy fails, the U.S.S. Enterprise crew combine wits to peacefully
turn the tables on the Ligonians, winning back Tasha and obtaining the rare
vaccine needed to help the federation planet of Stryris IV.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : James Louis Watkins       (Hagon)
       Jessie Lawrence Ferguson  (Lutan)
       Karole Selmon             (Yareena)
       Michael Rider             (Transporter Chief)
       Wil Wheaton               (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Katharyn Powers
             Michael Baron

Directed By : Russ Mayberry
¡Haven [TNG #5]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/haven.iff
Stardate 41294.5

Counselor Troi's mother pays an unexpected visit to the U.S.S. Enterprise,
informing her daughter of the marriage plans her late father had arranged on
Deanna's behalf. Honoring the traditional Betazoid customs, Troi dutifully,
yet halfheartedly, prepares to marry Wyatt, the son of her father's best
friend.

Wedding preparations between the two families create humorous bickering and
banter, not to mention confusion and mixed feelings for Troi's former lover,
Commander William Riker.

The wedding plans are thwarted, however, when Wyatt realizes his long-time
fantasy lover is real and aboard a Tarellian vessel containing the last
survivors of a biological warfare blast. Heading toward the peaceful, healing
planet of Haven, the Tarellians are informed by Captain Picard that they
cannot continue their course, in the event they would infect Haven. To the
amazement of his parents and the crew of the Enterprise, Wyatt, a doctor by
profession, beams over to the contaminated alien vessel with medical supplies
in hopes of finding a cure for his love and the remainder of the Tarellian
survivors.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Anna Katarina      (Valeda Innis)
       Armin Shimerman    (Gift Box)
       Carel Struycken    (Mr. Homn)
       Danitza Kingsley   (Ariana)
       Majel Barrett      (Lwaxana Troi)
       Michael Rider      (Transporter Chief)
       Nan Martin         (Victoria Miller)
       Raye Birk          (Wrenn)
       Rob Knepper        (Wyatt Miller)
       Robert Ellenstein  (Steven Miller)

Teleplay By : Tracy Torme

Story By : Lan O'Kun
           Tracy Torme

Directed By : Richard Compton
¡Where No One Has Gone Before [TNG #6]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/whereman.iff
Stardate 41263.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise and crew travel to uncharted territory when a test on
the ship's propulsion system backfires and blasts the starship more than a
billion light years from their own galaxy.

The blame for the mishap is originally placed on an arrogant Starfleet
propulsion expert. However, it is eventually discovered that the mental powers
of a meek, humanoid alien (acting as the propulsion expert's assistant), was
the true catalyst for this potential catastrophe.

Complicating the dilemma of being lost in space, the physical and mental world
are integrated in this galaxy - what the crew thinks becomes real. After
seeing his crew as well as himself experience alternate realities, the Captain
orders the passengers of the starship to control their thoughts.

To make matters worse, their only hope of returning to their own galaxy lies
in the mental abilities of the alien, who is exhausted and dying. The Captain
and crew soon discover they must focus their thoughts on the assistant's
recovery in order to discover a way back to their galaxy.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Biff Yeager       (Lt. Cmdr. Argyle)
       Charles Dayton    (Crew Member)
       Dennis Madalone   (Fire Ensign)
       Eric Menyuk       (The Traveller)
       Herta Ware        (Yvette Gessard Picard)
       Stanley Kamel     (Kosinski)
       Victoria Dillard  (Ballerina)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Diane Duane
             Michael Reaves

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Last Outpost [TNG #7]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/lastoutpost.iff
Stardate 41386.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise is rendered powerless above an unknown and mysterious
planet during a mission to repossess a stolen T-9 energy converter from
Ferengi culprits.

Captain Picard, believing the Ferengi bandits initiated this withdrawal of
energy, announces the U.S.S. Enterprise's willingness to resolve the
situation. However, the Ferengi vessel reports that it faces the same
predicament.

In an effort to discover who or what has tampered with their energy supplies,
away teams from both the Ferengi and U.S.S. Enterprise starships beam down to
investigate the desolate planet.

After a confrontation with the Ferengi enemy, a mysterious being known only as
Portal, guardian of the Tkon Empire, materializes before both away teams
inquiring, "Who will meet the challenge?" Portal, disenchanted with the
Ferengi's barbaric and warlike responses to his inquisition, is intrigued by
Commander Riker's wisdom. Once Riker passes several of Portal's intellectual
"tests," power is again restored to the respective starships.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Armin Shimerman   (Letek)
       Darryl Henriques  (Portal)
       Jake Dengel       (Mordoc)
       Mike Gomez        (Daimon Tarr)
       Tracey Walter     (Kayron)

Teleplay By : Herbert J. Wright

Story By : Richard Krzemien

Directed By : Richard Colla
¡Lonely Among Us [TNG #8]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/lonelyamong.iff
Stardate 41249.3

While transporting two adversary civilizations to the conference planet of
Parliament, the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise pass through a mysterious
"cloud" containing combinations of complex energy patterns. Immediately,
strange things begin to happen on the ship. It seems that both Lt. Worf and
Dr. Crusher have become afflicted with confusing behavior, while the ship
malfunctions and repairs itself with no available explanation.

Soon after entering the strange "cloud," Assistant Chief Engineer Singh is
killed while investigating the ship's mechanical malfunctions. At once the
Starfleet crew begins investigating the circumstances surrounding Singh's
death. Tasha questions the visitors aboard the Enterprise and Troi puts Lt.
Worf and Dr. Crusher under hypnosis to determine their thoughts during their
spells of strange behavior. Both Dr. Crusher and Lt. Worf reveal that "it felt
as if someone or something had invaded their minds and bodies."

After coming into contact with this strange being, the Captain shocks the crew
with his bizarre actions. He commands the U.S.S. Enterprise back into the
"cloud," thwarting the original mission to deliver the aliens to Parliament.
The Captain, still under the being's influence, announces that in its struggle
to return home, the entity accidentally disabled the ship, killing Singh and
invading Lt. Worf, Dr. Crusher and himself. The being, now in full control of
Captain Picard's behavior, announces Picard's resignation. Despite the crew's
objections and their determination to fight the force that seems to be taking
over Picard's mind, their efforts are in vain. The Captain is gone.

Riker takes command of the U.S.S. Enterprise and orders the ship to proceed
towards Parliament. By this time, the real Captain (in the form of energy)
manages to move into the transporter relays and materialize back aboard the
starship.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney  (First Security Guard)
       John Durbin  (Ssestar)
       Kavi Raz     (Lt. Cmdr. Singh)
       Marc Alaimo  (Badar N'D'D)
       Wil Wheaton  (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana

Story By : Michael Halperin

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Justice [TNG #9]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/justice.iff
Stardate 41255.6

After delivering a party of Earth colonists to the Strnad Solar System, the
crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise anxiously awaits a pending shore leave on the
pastoral planet of Rubicam III. The civilization, whose inhabitants are known
as the Edo, is less advanced than those on Earth but is brimming with love,
health and sensual pleasure.

Vacation plans are suddenly thwarted when Wesley, playing with the Edo
children, innocently violates a planet law and is sentenced to death. At the
same time, the crew is confronted by a mysterious vessel that appears to be
existing in two dimensions simultaneously. The vessel, protesting the
installation of Earth colonists in the Strnad Solar System, startles the crew
by sending a powerful light object that enters Data's mind and renders him
unconscious.

In order to determine the origins of the vessel, the Captain beams down to Edo
and negotiates to save Wesley's life for a few more hours and asks for Edo
assistance in determining the origins of the mysterious vessel.

Beaming aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise with a knowledgeable Edo woman, the
Captain soon learns the Edo consider the vessel as "God." To make matters
worse, it is learned that the inhabitants of this powerful object are
observing the crew's morals and preparing to pass judgment.

Picard returns to Rubicam III and despite Edo objections and the Federation's
prime directive, beams Wesley and the crew back to the U.S.S. Enterprise.
Preparing to face the wrath of the mysterious vessel for violating Edo
customs, Picard and crew are pleasantly surprised that the judgment passed on
the starship is favorable. The alien vessel fades away.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Brad Zerbst           (Medical Technician)
       Brenda Bakke          (Rivan)
       David Michael Graves  (Edo Boy #2)
       David Q. Combs        (Mediator #1)
       Eric Matthew          (Edo Boy #1)
       Jay Louden            (Liator)
       Josh Clark            (Conn)
       Judith Jones          (Edo Girl)
       Richard Lavin         (Mediator #2)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Worley Thorne

Story By : Ralph Wills
           Worley Thorne

Directed By : James L. Conway
¡The Battle [TNG #10]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/battle.iff
Stardate 41723.9

The crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers an old style starship heading
towards them shortly after a conference with a Ferengi vessel. Much to Captain
Picard's amazement, it is soon learned that the old ship, the U.S.S.
Stargazer, is the vessel he abandoned nine years earlier in the famous battle
of Maxia.

The Ferengi Captain, Bok, having since taken control of the U.S.S. Stargazer,
informs Captain Picard that he is returning the vessel to Starfleet. Unknown
to the Captain, a mind-altering device is also aboard the ship in his old
belongings.

As it turns out, Bok is seeking revenge for the death of his son during the
baffle of Maxia, and the mysterious device he holds is used to inflict great
pain on Picard. The Captain, his mind altered in terrifying ways, is forced to
think about the horror of the Maxia battle. In an attempt to tarnish Picard's
reputation, Bok also tampers with the Stargazer's records to make it appear as
if the Captain fired on an innocent Ferengi vessel in the Maxia skirmish.

While Data, Riker and La Forge try to absolve the Captain, Wesley discovers
patterns in Captain Picard's brain scan that match the low intensity
transmissions being picked up by the Ferengi ship.

Although Commander Riker soon discovers the illegal, mind-altering device, the
Captain has already beamed over to the U.S.S. Stargazer to relive the battle.
This time, however, Picard thinks the enemy is the Enterprise. He ultimately
tries to perform his famous "Picard Maneuver" with which he had won the battle
of Maxia.

Before tragedy strikes, Data devises a strategy to seize the Stargazer with
the Enterprise's tractor beam, thereby thwarting the supposedly unbeatable
maneuver. In the meantime, the Captain, fighting the effects of the device, is
convinced by Riker to use his phaser to destroy the mind-altering mechanism.
By this time Bok has been taken into custody by his first officer, since the
use of a mind-altering device violates Ferengi law.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Doug Warhit       (Kazago)
       Frank Corsentino  (Daimon Bok)
       Robert Towers     (Rata)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Herbert J. Wright

Story By : Larry Forrester

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Hide And Q [TNG #11]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/hideq.iff
Stardate 41590.5

While rushing to aid the survivors on a planet rocked by a lethal explosion,
the U.S.S. Enterprise is stopped by the dangerous "Q" entity who had
interfered with their Farpoint mission several months earlier. The powerful Q
demands they abandon their rescue mission and partake in a deadly game which,
according to Q, could result in either "the greatest possible future" for the
crew... or death!

The game involves surviving a confrontation with fanged, animal soldiers
created by Q. Strangely, the major player in the game turns out to be
Commander Riker, who is given Q's power and offered full membership in his
continuum. After using his new-found power to save Wesley and Lt. Worf from
the hostile creatures, Riker meets with the crew to discuss Q's proposal.

After the meeting,Q tempts Riker by telling him that if he joins the
continuum, the Commander can use his powers to give his friends anything they
want. Picard, having faith in his crew's resistance to temptation and their
common sense, urges Riker to accept Q's offer. Riker obliges by turning Wesley
into a 25-year-old Starfleet officer, restoring Geordi's vision, creating a
female Klingon companion for Lt. Worf and offering Data the chance to be
human. However, to Q's disbelief and Picard's pleasure, the crew members
decline the gifts because of their disreputable origin. Thwarted again by the
integrity and ingenuity of humans, Q disappears, thereby returning Riker to
his normal condition.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Elaine Nalee        (Disaster Survivor)
       John de Lancie      (Q)
       Wil Wheaton         (Wesley Crusher)
       William A. Wallace  (Adult Wesley)

Teleplay By : C.J. Holland
              Gene Roddenberry

Story By : C.J. Holland

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Too Short A Season [TNG #12]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/tooshort.iff
Stardate 41309.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise transports a famous negotiator, Admiral Mark Jameson, to
Mordan IV, where several Federation officials have been taken hostage by the
planet's governor, Karnas.

Although the crew is excited about having the legendary officer on board,
Picard and Dr. Crusher are perplexed by Jameson. When Jameson beams onto the
ship it turns out he is a terminally ill man in his eighties. As the voyage
progresses, however, Jameson inexplicably begins to look not only healthier,
but younger as well! When confronted by Picard, Jameson admits that he has
taken an enormous dose of an experimental alien drug to treat his disease,
which has resulted in a rapid de-aging process.

Further, the Admiral reveals that Karnas' insistence that he act as a mediator
is not coincidental. It seems that 45 years earlier, instead of shrewdly
negotiating a similar hostage deal with Karnas, Jameson gave arms to both
Karnas and his enemies, thus igniting a devastating40-year civil war. Karnas
wants Jameson to return to Mordan... so Karnas can publicly execute him.

After Jameson leads an aborted rescue mission for the hostages, he collapses
in pain. Dr. Crusher reports that the de-aging drug has put an unbearable
strain upon his internal organs and that his death is imminent. Seeing the now
teenaged Jameson in extraordinary pain, Karnas decides that his revenge has
been satisfied.

When Jameson dies, Picard and Karnas negotiate the peaceful release of the
hostages.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Clayton Rohner  (Admiral Mark Jameson)
       Marsha Hunt     (Anne Jameson)
       Michael Pataki  (Governor Karnas)

Teleplay By : D.C. Fontana
              Michael Michaelian

Story By : Michael Michaelian

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Big Goodbye [TNG #13]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/biggoodbye.iff
Stardate 41997.7

The U.S.S. Enterprise must pass through the quadrant Korona IV, which is
inhabited by the Jarada, an insect-like race that demands a precise greeting
from the Captain of any ship wishing to enter their territory.

Taking a break from the difficult greeting preparations, Captain Picard visits
1941 San Francisco in the fabricated environment of the holodeck. He is soon
joined by Data, Dr. Crusher and Whalen, the ship's historian. But when the
holodeck malfunctions, the four crew members are trapped in a 20th century
murder adventure in which Whalen is killed and Picard, Data and Crusher are
held at gunpoint by gangsters.

While Wesley struggles to repair the holodeck and get the kidnapped crew back
to the ship, the Jarada threaten to prevent the U.S.S. Enterprise from
traveling through their quadrant unless they are greeted by the Captain... in
one hour!

As Wesley's repairs near completion, the passageway back to the starship
begins to materialize. Picard tricks two of the three criminals into entering
the passageway, where their fabricated images instantly dematerialize in a
real environment. After a brief skirmish with Picard, the third criminal is
felled by Data. Upon returning safely to the ship, Picard successfully
executes the Jaradan greeting, allowing the U.S.S. Enterprise to pass through
without incident.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Carolyn Allport   (Jessica Bradley)
       David Selburg     (Whalen)
       Dick Miller       (Vendor)
       Erik Cord         (Thug)
       Gary Armagnac     (Lt. NcNary)
       Harvey Jason      (Felix Leech)
       Lawrence Tierney  (Cyrus Redblock)
       Mike Genovese     (Desk Sergeant)
       Rhonda Aldrich    (Madeline)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)
       William Boyett    (Lt. Dan Bell)

Written By : Tracy Torme

Directed By : Joseph L. Scanlan
¡Datalore [TNG #14]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/datalore.iff
Stardate 41242.4

The U.S.S. Enterprise crew investigates the mystery surrounding the
disappearance of an earth colony in the Omicron Theta star system 26 years
earlier, which coincidentally happens to the exact same time when Lieutenant
Commander Data was discovered.

While visiting Data's home planet, the away team discovers a laboratory
containing android body parts. When Dr. Crusher and Chief Engineer Argyle
assemble the parts, they bring to life a duplicate of Data! The real Data
learns that the look-alike, named Lore, was once "alive," but was disassembled
by the colonists on the planet who were jealous of Lore's perfection. As a
result, a less-than-perfect android, Data, was constructed.

Unbeknownst to the crew, Lore gained revenge on the planet's inhabitants
before being disassembled. He unleashed a ravenous crystal entity onto the
colonists - an entity which feasts on intelligent life forms - thereby erasing
all life on the planet.

As part of his scheme to turn the entity loose on the Enterprise, Lore renders
Data unconscious and impersonates him. Just when he's about to succeed in his
plan, Wesley recognizes Lore and urges his mother to find Data. Once back on
his feet, Data beams Lore into space during a spectacular android skirmish.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Biff Yeager   (Lt. Cmdr. Argyle)
       Brent Spiner  (Lore)
       Wil Wheaton   (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Gene Roddenberry
              Robert Lewin

Story By : Maurice Hurley
           Robert Lewin

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Angel One [TNG #15]
1987044*o*Data/STNG/angelone.iff
Stardate 41636.9

The U.S.S. Enterprise crew travels to Angel One, a planet run by women, to
search for survivors from a Federation freighter disabled by an asteroid
collision seven years earlier.

The away team soon discovers that the survivors, all men, are fugitives on the
planet because they refuse to embrace the female-dominated government. Despite
their oppressed status, the fugitives turn down the away team's offer to
return with them to the Enterprise. The reason? The men have taken wives on
Angel One.

Meanwhile, Captain Picard and his crew are ravaged by a highly contagious
virus that Wesley and his friends contract during a field trip. At the same
time, the ship is needed in the Neutral Zone to ward off hostile Romulan
Warbirds.

After the away team leaves, the Angel One fugitives are discovered and
sentenced to death. Despite the fact that it would violate the Prime
Directive, Commander Riker prepares to beam the fugitives to the safety of the
U.S.S. Enterprise. However, Dr. Crusher prohibits all boarding of the
prisoners, except for the android Data, fearing the crew will be exposed to
the virus.

As Dr. Crusher discovers an antidote for the virus, Riker fights to save the
fugitives' lives. Despite the fact that he's a male, Riker's wisdom impresses
the Angel One leader, who decides not to execute the fugitives. Instead, she
exiles them to a remote area of the planet where they can live as they please.
Pleased with their success, Riker and the rest of the U.S.S. Enterprise crew
race off to thwart the Romulans.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Karen Montgomery      (Beata)
       Leonard John Crofoot  (Trent)
       Patricia McPherson    (Ariel)
       Sam Hennings          (Ramsey)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Patrick Barry

Directed By : Michael Rhodes
¡11001001 [TNG #16]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/1100.iff
Stardate 41365.9

The U.S.S. Enterprise docks at Starbase 74 where the Bynars, a species
interdependent on computers, are scheduled to upgrade the ship's computer
system.

Instead of enhancing the starship's facilities, however, the Bynars program
the ship's computer to read that the magnetic containment field is
deteriorating and that the entire U.S.S. Enterprise will shortly be destroyed.
Unable to locate Captain Picard and Commander Riker, Data evacuates the ship
and launches the U.S.S. Enterprise back into space to avoid damaging the
Starbase.

Unbeknownst to Data, the Bynars have used a computer-generated woman to lure
Riker and Picard into the holodeck, where they don't hear the alert to abandon
the ship. Upon exiting the holodeck, the Captain and his First Officer realize
that the ship is completely empty except for the Bynars, who have taken
control of the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Determined not to leave the ship in hostile hands, Picard and Riker program
the starship to self-destruct in five minutes. But when they beam onto the
bridge, they find that the Bynars are dying. After turning off the
self-destruct mechanism, Picard and Riker soon discover that the ship is
orbiting the Bynars' home planet. They also learn that the aliens hijacked the
U.S.S. Enterprise in order to use its computer as a replacement for their own,
which was their only life-support device and was destroyed in an explosion.

Sympathetic to their cause, Picard and Riker use the U.S.S. Enterprise's
computer to regenerate the one lost by the Bynars, thus saving the planet's
inhabitants.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Abdul Salaam el Razzac  (Bass Player)
       Alexandra Johnson       (One Zero)
       Carolyn McCormick       (Minuet)
       Gene Dynarski           (Cmdr. Orfil Quinteros)
       Iva Lane                (Zero Zero)
       Jack Sheldon            (Piano Player)
       Katy Boyer              (Zero One)
       Kelli Ann McNally       (One One)
       Ron Brown               (Drummer)
       Wil Wheaton             (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Maurice Hurley
             Robert Lewin

Directed By : Paul Lynch
¡Home Soil [TNG #17]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/homesoil.iff
Stardate 41463.9

At the Federation's request, a U.S.S. Enterprise away team visits Velara III
where a group of terraformers are working to transform the seemingly desolate
planet into one capable of supporting life. Tragically, a terraformer engineer
is killed during their visit in a bizarre hydraulic room accident.

While investigating the mishap, Data is inexplicably attacked by the laser
drilling system. He escapes injury, but upon further exploration, Data and
Geordi find a microscopic inorganic life form that seems to be trying to
communicate with them. They take the life form, or "microbrain" as they refer
to it, back to the U.S.S. Enterprise where it begins to reproduce and project
an energy force that compels Dr. Crusher to activate a quarantine seal around
the medical lab.

Soon, the crew learns from the microbrain that some of its members were killed
during the terraformer's drilling on the planet's surface, and that its
attempts to contact the humans were ignored. As a result, they murdered the
engineer in the hydraulic room and have declared war on the human race.

To save the U.S.S. Enterprise, Picard attempts to beam the life form back to
Velara III. But the microbrain's power is too strong. Just when its energy
projections threaten to destroy the ship, the crew discovers that the
microbrain feeds off light. By shutting off the lights in the lab, they force
the microbrain to surrender and are able to beam it back home.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Carolyne Barry      (Female Engineer)
       Elizabeth Lindsey   (Louisa Kim)
       Gerard Prendergast  (Bjorn Benson)
       Mario Roccuzzo      (Arthur Malencon)
       Walter Gotell       (Kurt Mandl)
       Wil Wheaton         (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Robert Sabaroff

Story By : Karl Guers
           Ralph Sanchez
           Robert Sabaroff

Directed By : Corey Allen
¡When The Bough Breaks [TNG #18]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/boughbreaks.iff
Stardate 41509.1

The U.S.S. Enterprise accidentally discovers Aldea, a planet with advanced
technology that provides every need or want a person could have. Although
Aldea has hidden itself from the universe behind a sophisticated shield, it's
soon apparent that the discovery was no accident. Having lost the ability to
reproduce, the Aldeans kidnap several children from the U.S.S. Enterprise,
including Wesley, to perpetuate their race.

When hostage negotiations fail, Picard struggles to find a method of
penetrating the planet's shield while Dr. Crusher studies the cause of the
Aldean sterility problem. Meanwhile, Wesley uncovers the key to the planet's
sophistication-a computer known as the Custodian, whose power source is
unknown even to the Aldeans.

Before long, Dr. Crusher discovers that the Aldeans are suffering from
radiation poisoning caused by the protective shield overhead. As it turns out,
the shield has also weakened the planet's atmosphere. Picard and Crusher
inform the Aldean leaders of this development and plead for the release of the
children. When the Aldeans agree Picard uses the U.S.S. Enterprise to repair
the planet's atmosphere. Crusher, meanwhile, gives the dying race a treatment
that will save them.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Amy Wheaton       (Tara)
       Brenda Strong     (Rashella)
       Connie Danese     (Toya)
       Dan Mason         (Accolan)
       Dierk Torsek      (Dr. Harry Bernard, Sr.)
       Ivy Bethune       (Duana)
       Jandi Swanson     (Katie)
       Jeremy Wheaton    (Mason)
       Jerry Hardin      (Radue)
       Jessica Bova      (Alexandra)
       Michele Marsh     (Leda)
       Paul Lambert      (Melian)
       Philip N. Waller  (Harry Bernard, Jr.)
       Vanessa Bova      (Alexandra)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Hannah Louise Shearer

Directed By : Kim Manners
¡Coming Of Age [TNG #19]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/comingage.iff
Stardate 41416.2

While the U.S.S. Enterprise orbits Relva VII, Wesley beams down to take the
grueling Starfleet Academy entrance exam. Back on board the ship, Picard and
his crew are quizzed by Lt. Commander Dexter Remmick, a Federation officer who
is investigating Picard's competence on the orders of the captain's old
friend, Admiral Gregory Quinn. Although neither Picard nor his crew
understands the reason for the inquiry, they give Remmick their full
cooperation.

In the midst of the investigation a young man named Jake Kurland, distraught
over not qualifying for the Academy entrance exam, steals a shuttlecraft and
heads into space. When he discovers that the craft has a major malfunction,
Jake panics and begins to plummet toward certain death. Fortunately, Picard
keeps his cool and manages to help the teen make a safe return to the ship.
Remmick, meanwhile, watches with interest.

After an exhaustive study of Picard's performance record, Remmick tells Quinn
that he has failed to find any flaws in the captain's command. Quinn then
informs Picard that he has proven himself worthy of the prestigious post as
Commandant of the Starfleet Academy and may be promoted to the rank of
Admiral.

Despite Wesley's obvious intelligence and promise, he is not selected for the
Academy. Although clearly disappointed, the youngster's spirits are lifted
after a pep talk by Picard, who has decided to remain with the U.S.S.
Enterprise rather than accept Quinn's offer.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Brendan McKane    (Technician #1)
       Daniel Riordan    (Rondon)
       Estee Chandler    (Oliana Mirren)
       John Putch        (Mordock)
       Robert Ito        (Lt. Chang)
       Robert Schenkkan  (Lt. Cmdr. Dexter Remick)
       Stephen Gregory   (Jake Curland)
       Tasia Valenza     (T'Shanik)
       Ward Costello     (Admiral Gregory Quinn)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)
       Wyatt Knight      (Technician #2)

Written By : Sandy Fries

Directed By : Mike Vejar
¡Heart Of Glory [TNG #20]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/heartglory.iff
Stardate 41503.7

Lt. Worf must choose between his loyalty to Starfleet and his Klingon heritage
when two Klingon fugitives take over the U.S.S. Enterprise.

The fugitives, yearning to recapture the Klingon fighting days of the past,
hijack a Talarian vessel and destroy a Klingon ship sent to capture them.
Then, just as their disabled ship is about to blow up, the Klingons are
rescued by the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Unaware of the Klingons' true intentions, Captain Picard instructs Lt. Worf to
show his Klingon comrades around the ship. During their tour, the fugitives
attempt to enlist Worf in their cause. Meanwhile, a Klingon vessel approaches,
and its captain informs Picard of the fugitives' crimes and demands their
extradition. Before Picard can deliver them, one criminal escapes and the
other is killed. The surviving Klingon takes over the engineering room and
threatens to destroy the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Trying desperately to save the ship and its crew, Worf approaches the Klingon.
Faced with certain death, the fugitive pleads with Worf once again to join him
in his plan to escape with the battle section of the ship. Torn between his
new life and his Klingon warrior instincts, Worf explains that the sign of the
true warrior is not without - but within. The Klingon lunges but Worf,
prepared for the move, kills the fugitive with a phaser blast.

Impressed by Worf's skills, the Klingon captain offers Worf a position under
his command. After politely telling the Klingon captain he'll think about it,
Worf assures Picard that he plans to remain with the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Brad Zerbst       (Nurse)
       Charles H. Hyman  (Lt. Konmel)
       David Froman      (Capt. K'Nera)
       Dennis Madalone   (Ramos)
       Robert Bauer      (Kunivas)
       Vaughn Armstrong  (Cmdr. Korris)

Teleplay By : Maurice Hurley

Story By : D.C. Fontana
           Herbert J. Wright
           Maurice Hurley

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Arsenal Of Freedom [TNG #21]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/arsenal.iff
Stardate 41798.2

While investigating the disappearance of the U.S.S. Drake on the planet Minos,
the crew battles aggressive energy spheres, swallowing sinkholes and invisible
attackers.

Arriving at Minos, the crew is met by a prerecorded sales pitch for
highly-advanced weaponry. This is not surprising, however, since the Minos
people were renowned arms dealers during the Erselrope wars.

While exploring the planet Riker, Data and Yar are attacked by an energy
sphere. Lieutenant Yar destroys the sphere, but not before it traps Riker in a
transparent cube. Then, after Picard and Dr. Crusher beam down to investigate
the crisis, the ground swallows them into a subterranean cavern, seriously
injuring Dr. Crusher.

Although Data is able to free Riker, the away team is unable to locate Picard
and Crusher. Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise comes under serious attack by an
invisible enemy, which La Forge desperately fights to contain. Until the ship
can adequately defend itself from the attacker, La Forge cannot beam up the
crew members on Minos.

Back on the planet, Data finally locates Picard and Crusher. The team
discovers that the attacks are coming from a computer-generated weaponry
system which has gone out of control and has destroyed the civilization that
created it. Fortunately, the team is able to turn the system off in time to
save the planet... and themselves.

On board the U.S.S. Enterprise, La Forge is able to destroy the invisible
enemy and beam Picard, Crusher, Riker, Data and Yar aboard.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : George de la Pena   (Lt. Orfil Solis)
       Julia Nickson       (Ensign Lian T'Su)
       Marco Rodriguez     (Capt. Paul Rice)
       Vincent Schiavelli  (The Peddler)
       Vyto Ruginis        (Chief Engineer Lt. Logan)

Teleplay By : Hans Beimler
              Richard Manning

Story By : Maurice Hurley
           Robert Lewin

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Symbiosis [TNG #22]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/symbiosis.iff
Stardate Unknown

While studying magnetic changes in the Delos system's sun, the U.S.S.
Enterprise receives a distress signal from a disabled freighter ship. The
starship beams four of the passengers on board, along with the ship's cargo.
Two of the guests are from the technically advanced planet of Ornara, and the
other two are from its neighboring planet of Brekka. The crew is puzzled when
the two groups immediately begin to argue over the cargo.

Picard learns that the precious cargo is in fact a remedy for a plague which
has gripped Ornara for two centuries. The "cure" is manufactured exclusively
on Brekka, whose citizens provide it to the Ornarans in exchange for food and
other basic necessities. However, in this instance, the Brekkians claim the
Ornarans did not pay for their cargo, and they prepare to take it back to
Brekka.

Pleading that their civilization will be wiped out without the medication, the
Ornarans convince Picard to mediate. However, Picard is able only to convince
the Brekkians to give doses to the two Ornarans on the Starship Enterprise.
But as the Ornarans take the remedy, Dr. Crusher realizes that the alleged
cure is nothing more than a narcotic... and that the Ornarans are a race of
drug addicts!

Apparently, the Brekkians have neglected to inform the Ornarans that the
plague is not fatal and have instead allowed the Ornarans to become addicted
to a bogus cure.

Picard, citing the Prime Directive, refuses to inform the Ornarans that the
Brekkians have been deceiving them for 200 years. Instead, he cleverly turns
the tables on the Brekkians by withdrawing an earlier offer to repair the
Ornaran freighter ship. In this way, the Ornarans will be unable to honor
their trade agreement and will consequently escape their addiction.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Judson Scott      (Sobi)
       Kenneth Tigar     (Margon)
       Kimberly Farr     (Langor)
       Merritt Butrick   (T'Jon)
       Richard Lineback  (Romas)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Hans Beimler
              Richard Manning
              Robert Lewin

Story By : Robert Lewin

Directed By : Win Phelps
¡Skin Of Evil [TNG #23]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/skinevil.iff
Stardate 41601.3

While the U.S.S. Enterprise is en route to rendezvous with Troi's
shuttlecraft, a bizarre malfunction causes the transport vehicle to crash on
Vagra II. The only life form on the planet is Armus, a sinister entity that
derives pleasure from the suffering of others.

Picard orders Commander Riker, Dr. Crusher, Lieutenant Commander Data and
Lieutenant Yar to the planet to rescue Troi. Upon arrival, they discover that
a strange entity has surrounded the crash site with a forcefield, preventing
the away team from helping her. Suddenly, for no conceivable reason, Armus
kills Yar.

Captain Picard beams down with the rest of the away team in an attempt to
negotiate for the crash victims' release. However, Armus responds by
ridiculing the crew and tormenting them with vicious and childish pranks.

While Picard tries to reason with Armus, Lt. Worf and Wesley discover that
when Armus is provoked, the forcefield around the shuttlecraft weakens. Picard
then taunts Armus, while Lt. Worf and Wesley beam the crew back to the U.S.S.
Enterprise.

Picard orders the starship to destroy the shuttlecraft with the ship's phasers
and declares the planet off limits to future Federation travelers, thus
leaving Armus quarantined on a barren, lonely planet forever.

Returning to the U.S.S. Enterprise, the crew is touched by the living will of
Lieutenant Yar. As her holographic image appears before them, she gives a
moving farewell to each of her fellow crew members.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Denise Crosby    (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Brad Zerbst       (Nurse)
       Mart McChesney    (Armus)
       Raymond Forchion  (Lt. Ben Pieto)
       Ron Gans          (Voice of Armus)
       Walker Boone      (Lt. Cmdr. Leland T. Lynch)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Hannah Louise Shearer
              Joseph Stefano

Story By : Joseph Stefano

Directed By : Joseph L. Scanlan
¡We'll Always Have Paris [TNG #24]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/paris.iff
Stardate 41697.9

While traveling to Sarona VIII for shore leave, the U.S.S. Enterprise crew
experiences a bizarre phenomenon in which a moment in time mysteriously
repeats itself. Shortly thereafter, the ship receives a distress signal from
Vandor IV, where Dr. Paul Manheim has been conducting experiments in
non-linear time.

After rescuing Dr. Manheim and his wife Jenice, who turns out to be Picard's
first love, the crew learns that Manheim's experiment not only caused the time
distortion they experienced, but cracked a window into a new dimension. As a
result, Manheim's days are numbered, since his neurochemistry has been damaged
from floating between two dimensions.

To save Manheim's life and prevent the aborted experiment from ripping into
the fabric of the galaxy and confusing everyone's perception of reality,
Picard must devise a plan to seal the hole into the other dimension. While
Picard tries to resolve his past with Jenice and a jealous Dr. Crusher
attempts to come to terms with her feelings for Picard, the away team beams
down to Vandor IV to repair Manheim's mistake.

Using Dr. Manheim's lab and his own extraordinary intelligence, Data adds the
specific amount of anti-matter necessary to rebalance and align the galaxy.
Once the hole is patched, Dr. Manheim's condition improves and Picard is able
to resolve his relationship with Jenice once and for all.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Dan Kern           (Lt. Dean)
       Isabel Lorca       (Gabrielle)
       Jean-Paul Vignon   (Edourd)
       Kelly Ashmore      (Francine)
       Lance Spellerberg  (Transporter Chief Herbert)
       Michelle Phillips  (Jenice Manheim)
       Rod Loomis         (Dr. Paul Manheim)

Written By : Deborah Dean Davis
             Hannah Louise Shearer

Directed By : Robert Becker
¡Conspiracy [TNG #25]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/conspiracy.iff
Stardate 41775.5

While journeying to Pacifica, the U.S.S. Enterprise receives an emergency
message for Captain Picard from Starfleet Captain Walker Keel, who requests a
secret meeting. At a rendezvous on an uninhabited planet, Captain Keel and two
other Starfleet officers tell Picard that they suspect a growing conspiracy in
the upper ranks of Starfleet.

Alarmed by Keel's accusations, Picard orders Lieutenant Commander Data to
review all Starfleet directives during the past six months. Picard's concern
escalates when Keel's vessel mysteriously explodes, killing all aboard, and
Data's research reveals abnormalities in the highest levels of the Starfleet
command.

Convinced the Federation's security is at risk, Picard steers the Enterprise
toward Earth to confront Starfleet's top admirals. After requesting a meeting
with the officers, Picard and Riker are invited to dinner to discuss the
problem.

Prior to dinner, Admiral Quinn, who several months earlier had warned Picard
that subversive elements had invaded Starfleet, visits the U.S.S. Enterprise.
Suspicious of the admiral, Picard orders Riker to watch him closely before
joining him on Earth. Picard's instincts turn out to be correct: as soon as
Picard beams down to join the other admirals, Quinn attacks Riker, rendering
him unconscious.

After Lt. Worf and Dr. Crusher join forces to subdue the incredibly powerful
Admiral Quinn, they discover that a parasitic being has invaded Quinn's body
and it is controlling all of his brain functions. When Riker regains
consciousness, he beams down to Earth, pretending to be one of the
parasitic-controlled beings.

At the dinner, Riker realizes that the Starfleet command is controlled by the
parasites. Fortunately, he and Picard are able to kill the parasitic-infested
admirals, as well as the species' mother creature. However, Data later
discovers that the mother creature sent a homing beacon to an unexplored
region of our galaxy before being destroyed...

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Henry Darrow      (Admiral Savar)
       Jonathan Farwell  (Capt. Walker Keel)
       Michael Berryman  (Capt. Rixx)
       Ray Reinhardt     (Admiral Aaron)
       Robert Schenkkan  (Lt. Cmdr. Dexter Remick)
       Ursaline Bryant   (Capt. Tryla Scott)
       Ward Costello     (Admiral Gregory Quinn)

Teleplay By : Tracy Torme

Story By : Robert Sabaroff

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡The Neutral Zone [TNG #26]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/neutralzone.iff
Stardate 41986.0

Waiting for Captain Picard's return from a Federation conference, the U.S.S.
Enterprise crew discovers a disabled 20th century Earth satellite containing
three perfectly preserved bodies, frozen for over 300 years by cryogenics.

Upon his return to the Enterprise, Picard informs the crew that they are being
sent to the outskirts of the Neutral Zone, where two Federation outposts have
been destroyed. The ship has been chosen to investigate the potentially
volatile incident, which may or may not have been executed by hostile Romulans
as a prelude to war.

After Data beams back aboard with the three bodies, Dr. Crusher revives them.
They are a housewife, businessman and entertainer from the 20th century, who
must each struggle to cope with their new surroundings. Picard, preoccupied
with the situation in the Neutral Zone, tolerates the visitors, but warns
Riker to keep them at bay until a decision can be made about their future.

Arriving at the edge of the Neutral Zone, the crew discovers that the
Federation stations have simply vanished. Just then, the captain and first
officer of a Romulan vessel in the area hail the U.S.S. Enterprise and request
visual contact with Picard.

In a tension-packed exchange, the Enterprise officers are warned that there
will likely be war between the Romulans and the Federation. Furthermore, the
Romulans reveal that they did not destroy the Federation outposts, but are in
fact investigating the loss of some of their own outposts as well.

Convinced neither party is liable for the missing space stations, Picard
negotiates a pact whereby each party will inform the other if they learn who
is responsible. With the threat of war temporarily averted, the U.S.S.
Enterprise heads for a rendezvous with the U.S.S. Charleston, which will
transport the 20th century survivors back to Earth.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Anthony James       (Subcmdr. Thei)
       Gracie Harrison     (Clare Raymond)
       Leon Rippy          (Sonny Clemonds)
       Marc Alaimo         (Cmdr. Tebok)
       Peter Mark Richman  (Ralph Offenhouse)

Teleplay By : Maurice Hurley

Story By : Deborah McIntyre
           Monica Clee

Directed By : James L. Conway
¡The Child [TNG #27]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/child.iff
Stardate 42073.1

When a plague in the densely populated Rachelis System races out of control,
help from the U.S.S. Enterprise is enlisted in the medical emergency. But
while preparing to transport samples of a deadly plasma plague from a
Federation research station to a site where a suitable antidote can be
developed, the crew is stunned by an unexpected announcement: Counselor Troi
is pregnant.

According to Troi, a glowing white light impregnated her while she was asleep.
Dr. Katherine Pulaski, the ship's new Chief Medical Officer, confirms Troi's
prognosis and reports that the fetus will reach full term within 36 hours. Not
knowing the true origins or intent of this mysterious child, Picard puts the
crew on security alert. But when Troi gives birth to a boy named Ian, he
appears to be completely harmless - although he amazes his mother and the crew
when he grows from an infant to an eight-year-old in one day.

Meanwhile, Wesley reluctantly prepares to leave the U.S.S. Enterprise and join
his mother, who has departed to become head of Starfleet Medical. Full of
mixed emotions, Wesley decides to stay with the ship after receiving
encouragement from a new crew member named Guinan. Later, when Wesley
discusses his plans with Picard, the Captain agrees to let the young ensign
remain as long as his mother permits it.

However, a sudden crisis with the plasma plague puts everyone's future in
doubt. It seems that a contaminated specimen of the hazardous strain has
inexplicably begun to grow on the cargo deck due to radiation from an unknown
source on board. Dr. Pulaski reports that, at its current growth rate, the
plague could wipe out the ship's entire population within two hours.

Unknown to all, Ian is the source of the radiation. When the young boy
realizes this he decides to sacrifice his life to save the crew.

As a heartbroken Troi looks on, Ian dies and his body reverts to its original
state - a glowing white life-force entity, which tells Troi that Ian had come
to her to learn more about humans by experiencing life among them. Once the
entity leaves the ship, the threat is averted and the crew continues their
humanitarian mission.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney       (Transporter Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Dawn Arnemann     (Miss Gladstone)
       Dore Keller       (Engineering Crewman)
       R.J. Williams     (Ian Andrew Troi)
       Seymour Cassel    (Lt. Cmdr. Hester Dealt)
       Whoopi Goldberg   (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)
       Zachary Benjamin  (Young Ian Andrew Troi)

Written By : Jaron Summers
             Jon Povill
             Maurice Hurley

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Where Silence Has Lease [TNG #28]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/silencelease.iff
Stardate 42193.6

While en route to the Morgana Quadrant, the U.S.S. Enterprise is engulfed by a
mysterious "hole" having no dimensions and void of all energy and matter.
Captain Picard is perplexed by this mysterious oddity which cannot be measured
or defined in human terms, and the crew is caught in a trap which, by their
standards, does not even exist.

Unable to escape from the powerful hole, Riker and Worf decide to investigate
an abandoned starship also marooned in the trap. On board the ship, the
officers are confounded by a series of inexplicable incidents, but return
safely to the Enterprise.

The crew is then confronted by a giant human eye which peers in at them
through the main view screen. The being, calling Itself Nagilum, explains that
he is using the Enterprise in an experiment to study human life -
specifically, the many ways in which humans die. Wishing to observe death in
all of its forms, Nagilum plans to use one-third to one-half of the crew as
human guinea pigs.

Unwilling to stand by and watch his crew being slaughtered, Picard makes one
of the most difficult decisions of his career. With Riker's support, Picard
initiates the auto-destruct system of the ship - within 20 minutes, the
Enterprise and her crew will be destroyed.

But as the sands of time slip away, Troi and Data plead with Picard to reverse
his decision, pointing out the futility of killing everyone on board just to
spite Nagilum. While Picard wonders whether Nagilum is bluffing, the
Enterprise is suddenly freed from the black hole and the captain is able to
revoke the auto-destruct command with only two seconds to spare. Nagilum tells
Picard that he observed enough watching the crew prepare to die to help him
understand human nature, and Picard points out that they share one
characteristic: curiosity.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Charles Douglass  (Ensign Haskell)
       Colm Meaney       (Transporter Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Earl Boen         (Nagilum)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Jack B. Sowards

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡Elementary, Dear Data [TNG #29]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/elementary.iff
Stardate 42286.3

When the Starship Enterprise arrives three days ahead of schedule to
rendezvous with the U.S.S. Victory, the crew is presented with some
well-deserved free time.

Knowing that Data is a Sherlock Holmes aficionado, Geordi summons Data to the
holodeck, where they travel back to Victorian London to solve one of the famed
detective's mysteries. Geordi plays Dr. Watson to Data's Holmes, but the trip
turns out to be a brief one - having memorized every one of the Sherlock
Holmes books, Data can solve the crime with very little effort.

Returning to the U.S.S. Enterprise, Geordi tries to explain to Data the
difference between deduction and memorization. Dr. Kate Pulaski overhears
their conversation and challenges Data to solve a real crime, a la Sherlock
Holmes. Geordi orders the computer to present Data with an original mystery
and an opponent who could defeat him.

Kate joins Data and Geordi as they return to London, via the holodeck. But
their game turns serious when Kate is kidnapped by Holmes' arch-enemy,
Professor James Moriarty. Although they track down Kate's location, they are
unable to retrieve her because Moriarty has taken control of the holodeck
computer.

Leaving the holodeck, Geordi and Data apprise the crew of the situation with
Kate. They learn that the computer didn't create an adversary worthy of
Holmes' intelligence, but of Data's - which means Moriarty is very bright
indeed! Picard insists upon returning to London with Data to rescue Kate.

Data leads Picard to Moriarty, who is still holding Kate hostage. Although
Data offers to concede victory to his nemesis in order to end the charade,
Moriarty wants more. He wants to leave the holodeck and become real. Luckily,
Picard is able to convince Moriarty that he does not yet know how to convert
artificially created holodeck matter into a more permanent form, and Moriarty
releases Kate from captivity.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Alan Shearman          (Inspector Lestrade)
       Anne Elizabeth Ramsay  (Assistant Engineer Clancy)
       Biff Manard            (Ruffian)
       Daniel Davis           (Professor James Moriarty)
       Diz White              (Prostitute)
       Richard Merson         (Pie Man)

Written By : Brian Alan Lane

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Outrageous Okona [TNG #30]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/outokona.iff
Stardate 42402.7

While traveling through the Omega Sagitta system, the U.S.S. Enterprise aids a
disabled cargo ship and plays host to its sole occupant, Captain Okona.

Once on board the Enterprise, the handsome, roguish Okona charms the crew -
particularly the women - with his quick wit and mischievous manner. Data,
however, is unable to understand Okona's jokes and looks to Guinan and the
holodeck for lessons in human humor.

Meanwhile, two small interplanetary vessels lock their lasers on the U.S.S.
Enterprise, demanding Okona's surrender. First, Debin accuses Okona of getting
his daughter, Yanar, pregnant; then Kushell, with his son Benzan at his side,
charges the dashing Captain with stealing his nation's prized Jewel of Thesia.

Knowing that releasing Okona to either Debin or Kushell would cause a war
between their respective homelands, Picard agrees to help Okona make a fast
getaway. However, a discussion with Wesley convinces Okona to change his mind
and turn himself in.

When all of the parties are beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise to discuss the
matter, Okona proposes to Yanar, which prompts an outburst from Benzan, who
confesses that he fathered Yanar's child and took the jewel to present to the
girl as his pledge of marriage. Okona also admits that he's been acting as a
go-between for the couple, whose families have been feuding for years. Once
everything is out in the open, Yanar agrees to marry her beloved Benzan.

The ordeal resolved, Data returns to the Holodeck to try out some jokes he's
learned in front of an audience. After a disappointing attempt, Data reaches
the sad conclusion that he is incapable of being funny. But as the crew bids
good-bye to Okona, Data is caught off guard by a question from Okona and
delivers a response that leaves everyone on the bridge laughing.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Albert Stratton      (Kushell)
       Douglas Rowe         (Debin)
       Joe Piscopo          (Comic)
       Kieran Mulroney      (Benzan)
       Rosalind Ingledew    (Yanar)
       Teri Hatcher         (Lt. B.G. Robinson)
       Whoopi Goldberg      (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton          (Wesley Crusher)
       William O. Campbell  (Capt. Thaduin Okona)

Teleplay By : Burton Armus

Story By : David Landsberg
           Lance Dickson
           Les Menchen

Directed By : Robert Becker
¡The Schizoid Man [TNG #31]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/schizoidman.iff
Stardate 42437.5

The U.S.S. Enterprise races toward a remote planet on a top priority mission
to provide medical aid for Dr. Ira Graves, one of the greatest living human
minds. Graves' young assistant, Kareen Brianon, has summoned for help against
Graves' wishes.

An away team, led by Data, beams down to assist the dying Graves. Data
develops a particularly strong rapport with the brilliant scientist, who is
bravely enduring the final stages of a terminal disease. Shortly after Graves
tells Data of his remarkable ability to transfer human knowledge into a
computer, he dies.

Back on board the Enterprise, Data displays extremely uncharacteristic
behavior, going so far as to accuse Picard of having lustful intentions toward
Kareen. After an engineering test reveals no mechanical malfunctions with him,
Troi tests Data's psychological reactions and discovers two conflicting
personalities within him - Data's normal personality, along with a brilliant
but irrational side which is quickly taking over his mind.

Meanwhile, Data reveals to Kareen that he is actually Graves, who transferred
his dying mind and body into Data's mechanical frame. He also tells her that
he intends to place her in an android body so they can be together eternally.
A frightened Kareen rejects Data's plan, which triggers a violent reaction in
him.

Having discerned Graves' scheme, Picard confronts Data and begs Graves to
vacate Data's body and mind. In response, Data knocks the captain unconscious.
But when Picard is revived, he is relieved to learn that Graves' knowledge has
been transferred to the ship's computer, thus returning Data back to normal.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Barbara Alyn Woods  (Kareen Brianon)
       Suzie Plakson       (Lt. Selar)
       W. Morgan Sheppard  (Dr. Ira Graves)
       Wil Wheaton         (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Tracy Torme

Story By : Hans Beimler
           Richard Manning

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Loud As A Whisper [TNG #32]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/loudwhisper.iff
Stardate 42477.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise is unexpectedly diverted to the Ramatis star system to
transport a famous mediator named Riva to the site of a bitter planetary
conflict on Solais V.

To the surprise of the away team, headed by Captain Picard, it soon becomes
apparent that Riva is deaf. Although he can understand what the crew is saying
by reading their lips, his only way of communicating is through the Chorus, a
group of three people who not only possess a distinctive aspect of Riva's
personality, but can read the mediator's thoughts telepathically and translate
them into words.

En route to Solais V, Troi and Riva develop a strong mutual affection. Left
alone together, Riva communicates his loving feelings toward Troi using
thoughts and crude sign language.

Arriving at the war-torn planet, Riva, his Chorus and the away team prepare to
meet with the leaders of the centuries-old dispute. But when the combatants
face each other to begin the peace talks, a dissident soldier opens fire with
his weapon, killing Riva's Chorus. The away team and Riva are quickly beamed
back aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise before more harm is done.

Faced with the loss of his Chorus, Riva becomes withdrawn and loses all
confidence in himself. Although Data learns several forms of sign language and
is able to communicate the deaf man's thoughts, Riva refuses to return to the
planet where his friends were so needlessly killed. Luckily, Troi is able to
persuade Riva that he can turn his disadvantage into an advantage.

Back on Solais V, Riva dismisses Data as his translator, announcing that he
plans to teach the warring leaders sign language so that they can communicate
with him and, in turn, with each other.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Chip Heller     (Warrior #2)
       Colm Meaney     (Transporter Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Howie Seago     (Riva)
       John Garrett    (Lieutenant)
       Leo Damian      (Adonis / Warrior)
       Marnie Mosiman  (Woman)
       Richard Lavin   (Warrior #1)
       Thomas Oglesby  (Scholar)
       Wil Wheaton     (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Jacqueline Zambrano

Directed By : Larry Shaw
¡Unnatural Selection [TNG #33]
1988044*o*Data/STNG/unnaturalsel.iff
Stardate 42494.8

An emergency call for help from a Federation supply ship sends the U.S.S.
Enterprise racing on a course to determine the nature of the crisis.

Upon visually scanning the bridge of the U.S.S. Lantree, the crew is shocked
to learn that everyone on the troubled vessel is dead. Dr. Pulaski determines
that the crew members, who had been examined and found to be in perfect health
eight weeks earlier, have all died of old age. The Lantree is immediately
placed under quarantine and the U.S.S. Enterprise heads toward the ship's last
port of call, the Darwin Genetic Research Station, to warn them of the
potential danger.

Unfortunately, the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers that the residents of the
Darwin Station are suffering from the same mysterious affliction. Picard is
asked to evacuate the children of the station, who have been engineered to
become super-specimens through genetic research. Although the children have
been kept in isolation and show no signs of infection, a cautious Picard
allows Pulaski to examine just one child until the nature of the virulent
disease can be determined.

To further eliminate any danger to the crew, Data and Pulaski board a
shuttlecraft and have the boy beamed to that vessel so that he can be
evaluated in a safe environment. But moments after Pulaski begins to examine
the boy, she is stricken by the mysterious disease, which immediately begins
working its rapid aging process on her.

In a desperate attempt to save Pulaski's life, Picard orders the crew to
modify the transporter unit so that it can filter out any changes in the
doctor by using a sample cell of Pulaski's DNA taken before her exposure to
the infection. A short time later, with Picard at the transporter controls,
Pulaski is safely beamed back aboard the Enterprise and restored to her normal
age.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney          (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       George L. Baxter     (David)
       J. Patrick McNamara  (Capt. Taggert)
       Patricia Smith       (Dr. Sarah Kingsley)
       Scott Trost          (Transporter Ensign)
       Wil Wheaton          (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : John Mason
             Mike Gray

Directed By : Paul Lynch
¡A Matter Of Honor [TNG #34]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/matterhonor.iff
Stardate 42506.5

A special exchange program brings a Benzite named Mendon aboard the U.S.S.
Enterprise and gives Riker the opportunity to become the first Federation
officer to serve on board a Klingon ship.

Riker's preparations for his assignment include a lesson from Lt. Worf about
Klingons, who still maintain the barbaric view that brute strength rules. The
lesson is put to immediate use on board the Klingon cruiser Pagh when First
Officer Riker must overpower the Second Officer when he questions Riker's
authority and loyalty.

Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers that a virulent strain of bacteria
is eating away at the hulls of both their ship and the Klingon vessel. As the
U.S.S. Enterprise plots a course to intercept and warn the Pagh, the Klingons
discover the bacteria and mistakenly believe the starship is responsible for
it. Unable to communicate with the cloaked Pagh, the U.S.S. Enterprise becomes
concerned and raises its shields, which the Klingons immediately interpret as
an act of aggression.

As the Pagh prepares to attack the U.S.S. Enterprise, Riker produces and
activates an emergency transponder supplied to him by Worf prior to his
transfer. The captain of the Pagh seizes the device and is soon beamed aboard
the U.S.S. Enterprise. Now captain of the Pagh, Riker demands the surrender of
Picard and the crew, allowing the Klingons to maintain their honor as
warriors.

A short time later, the Enterprise aids in removing the bacteria from the
Klingon ship and beams the Pagh's captain back to his vessel. Riker
immediately surrenders his authority to the Klingon captain and returns to his
duties on board the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Brian Thompson       (Lt. Klag)
       Christopher Collins  (Capt. Kargan)
       Colm Meaney          (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       John Putch           (Ensign Mendon)
       Laura Drake          (Vekma)
       Peter Parros         (Tactics Officer)
       Wil Wheaton          (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Burton Armus

Story By : Burton Armus
           Gregory Amos
           Wanda M. Haight

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Measure Of A Man [TNG #35]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/measureman.iff
Stardate 42523.7

When the U.S.S. Enterprise arrives at the newly established Starbase 173, Data
is ordered to serve under Captain Bruce Maddox, who wishes to disassemble and
study him so that more androids can be made for Starfleets use.

But after Data learns that Maddox may not be able to reassemble him, he
refuses to submit to the procedure. When Captain Picard is unable to have the
orders changed, Data's only option is to resign from Starfleet. His decision
to resign, however, is challenged by Maddox on the basis that Data is not a
person with rights, but property of the Federation.

The J.A.G. (Judge Advocate General) officer of the starbase, Phillipa Louvois,
an old acquaintance of Picard, rules that Maddox's contention is supported by
a twenty-first century precedent. Picard announces that he will challenge that
ruling at a hearing. Insufficiently staffed, Phillipa explains that as senior
officer, Picard would have to defend Data, while the next most senior officer,
Riker, would have to prosecute. A stickler for the law, Phillipa warns that if
Riker does not give his best effort, she will summarily rule in favor of
Maddox.

Faced with no other choice, Riker must contend in his prosecution that Data is
simply a machine - the creation of man - and dramatically emphasizes his point
by approaching Data from behind and switching him off, leaving him lifeless in
his seat. Certain of his defeat, Picard has a discussion with Guinan and she
suggests that the Federation's desire to create and own a race of disposable
androids is the recreation of slavery.

Making an impassioned plea for Data's freedom, Picard declares that in a
sense, all beings are created but that does not necessarily make them the
property of their creator. Phillipa agrees with him, asserting that Data may
be a machine, but he is owned by no one and has the right to make his own
decisions regarding his life.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Amanda McBroom   (Capt. Phillipa Louvois)
       Brian Brophy     (Cmdr. Bruce Maddox)
       Clyde Kusatsu    (Admiral Nakamura)
       Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Melinda M. Snodgrass

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡The Dauphin [TNG #36]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/dauphin.iff
Stardate 42568.8

The U.S.S. Enterprise is assigned to escort a young girl and her guardian from
the planet Klavdia III, where they have lived almost all of the girl's life,
to Daled IV, the planet she was born to rule.

The sixteen-year-old Salia has a chance encounter with Wesley, who is
instantly and obviously smitten with her, much to the dismay of the girl's
overprotective guardian Anya. After a short lesson in love from Guinan and
Riker, a nervous Wesley calls on Salia in her quarters, where he introduces
her to Thalian chocolate mousse. All the while, Troi is concerned that the
emotions she senses from the new passengers don't seem to fit who they are.

Meanwhile, during a tour of sickbay, Anya discovers that there's a contagious
patient on board and insists that he be killed immediately. When no action is
taken, Anya becomes a raging monster intent on murdering the patient herself.
Worf is barely able to fight off the monster before security arrives. Dr.
Pulaski suspects that the passengers are allasomorphs, a species rumored to
possess the power to change into other life forms. In order not to provoke
Anya further, Picard orders Wesley to stay away from Salia.

Disobeying Anya's wishes, Salia sneaks into Wesley's room where she exchanges
a passionate kiss with the smitten ensign. When the angry monster suddenly
appears, Salia herself transforms into an even more frightening creature,
resulting in a tense stand-off between the girl and her guardian. After they
change back to their humanoid forms, Wesley is left stunned at the discovery
that the girl of his dreams is not who he thinks she is.

Nearing the end of her stay, Salia tries to apologize to Wesley for any pain
she may have caused him, but her pleas are met with indifference. Telling
Wesley that she loves him, Salia heads toward the transporter room. When
Wesley realizes his true feelings, he bursts into the transporter room bearing
a bowl of Thalian chocolate mousse just as Salia is about to be beamed down to
Daled IV. The two share a last taste and a last embrace before Salia bids
Wesley a fond farewell.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Cindy Sorenson   (Anya As Furry Animal)
       Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Jamie Hubbard    (Salia)
       Jennifer Barlow  (Ensign Gibson)
       Madchen Amick    (Anya As Teenage Girl)
       Paddi Edwards    (Anya)
       Peter Neptune    (Crewman Aron)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Leonard Mlodinow
             Scott Rubenstein

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Contagion [TNG #37]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/contagion.iff
Stardate 42609.1

The Starship Enterprise enters the Neutral Zone in response to a desperate
plea for aid from the U.S.S. Yamato, which has been crippled by a series of
dangerous, inexplicable malfunctions on its voyage to the homeland of the
Iconians, an extinct civilization.

When the U.S.S. Yamato's captain tries to explain his mission to Picard, the
transmission breaks up and the Yamato suddenly explodes. Investigating the
incident, Picard learns that a mysterious probe was launched at the starship
several days earlier, emitting a burst of energy at the ship. En route to
Iconia to retrace the Yamato's course, the U.S.S. Enterprise experiences
system failures similar to those the doomed vessel faced prior to its
destruction. Geordi informs Picard that the probe rewrote the U.S.S. Yamato
software, causing its disintegration, and that the U.S.S. Enterprise computer
was infected when it downloaded the U.S.S. Yamato log, prior to the ship's
explosion.

In an effort to save the U.S.S. Enterprise, Picard and an away team beam down
to Iconia. At the same time, a Romulan vessel orders the U.S.S. Enterprise to
leave the Neutral Zone and begins firing photon torpedoes at the ship, whose
malfunctioning shields cannot be raised. Fortunately, the Romulan weapons
suddenly disarm - it becomes clear that their ship is also "infected." When
Riker is finally able to activate the Enterprise's shields, he orders that
they be kept up to deflect another Romulan attack - even though it will
prevent the away team from being beamed back aboard.

Meanwhile, the away team discovers a gateway on Iconia which allows for time
travel. When the power source which has been activating the probes tries to
rewrite Data's software, Worf saves him by carrying him through the gateway in
which an image of the U.S.S. Enterprise has appeared. Back on the starship,
Data's self-correcting mechanism begins overriding the foreign program,
reminding Geordi that the U.S.S. Enterprise computers have the same
capability. After Picard destroys the power source on Iconia to keep it out of
Romulan hands, he beams safely back to the Enterprise.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Carolyn Seymour   (Subcmdr. Taris)
       Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Dana Sparks       (Tactical Ensign)
       Folkert Schmidt   (Doctor)
       Thalmus Rasulala  (Capt. Donald Varley)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Beth Woods
             Steve Gerber

Directed By : Joseph L. Scanlan
¡The Royale [TNG #38]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/royale.iff
Stardate 42625.4

In an unmapped solar system, the U.S.S Enterprise discovers a jagged chunk of
metal bearing a United States Air Force insignia.

The Away Team beams down to a building on a nearby planet, hoping to find a
connection between the structure and the ship fragment. When Riker, Worf and
Data materialize in front of a revolving door that leads them into the casino
of the Hotel Royale, their communication with the U.S.S. Enterprise is
suddenly cut off. The away team is trapped by the revolving door, which
continually leads back into the casino lobby, full of employees and patrons
showing no signs of life.

While the Away Team searches for an exit, the drama of a bellboy preparing to
fight an evil gambler for the woman he loves unfolds before them. In another
one of the hotel rooms, the crew discovers the body of an American Air Force
officer and among his remains, a novel titled "The Hotel Royale," the story
being lived out before them. As communication with the U.S.S. Enterprise is
restored, Data reads from the officer's diary that the world was created by
aliens who misinterpreted the novel to reflect the preferred human way of
life.

Back in the casino, Riker realizes that the key to their exit may be found in
the book. Picard tells Riker that the story ends with "foreign investors"
buying out the hotel, and life for the other characters going on as before.
Data, calculating percentages at the crap table, quickly breaks the bank,
buying the hotel and escaping with the rest of the team out of the perpetual
drama.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Gregory Beecroft  (Mickey D)
       Jill Jacobson     (Vanessa)
       Leo Garcia        (Bell Boy)
       Noble Willingham  (Texas)
       Sam Anderson      (Assistant Manager)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Keith Mills

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Time Squared [TNG #39]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/timesq.iff
Stardate 42679.2

When the U.S.S. Enterprise encounters a Federation shuttlecraft cartwheeling
out of control through space, the starship pulls it into the shuttle bay.

Riker discovers that the shuttlecraft belongs to the U.S.S. Enterprise, and
Dr. Pulaski finds an unconscious double of Picard inside. Captain Picard
accompanies his double to sickbay, where Troi explains that the double really
is Picard, but from another time. Data tells Picard that the shuttle's
on-board clock shows it to be just six hours ahead of the U.S.S. Enterprise.

Scenes taken by the shuttle camera as it departed show the U.S.S. Enterprise
surrounded by a whirlpool of energy. The double, frightened and confused in a
nightmare world of his own, is unable to convey any information about the
impending danger, and a scan of the area reveals nothing similar to the force
filmed by the shuttle camera. Picard begins to doubt himself and worries that
the judgment he made, as his double in the future, may have left him and his
crew in a never-ending cycle of torment.

Suddenly, the whirlpool is upon them. Picard orders Geordi to take the U.S.S.
Enterprise away at warp speed, but when it is unable to move, the U.S.S.
Enterprise is forced to shut down before it is torn apart by the strain. The
whirlpool lashes a tongue of energy which strikes each Picard, leading Troi to
explain to Picard that the energy only wants him. Learning of his double's
resolve to again leave the ship, Picard decides that they will never be able
to move forward until the cycle is broken. He orders the U.S.S. Enterprise to
charge directly into the vortex. After a tense moment, the double, the shuttle
and the whirlpool disappear, leaving the Enterprise alone and on course again.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney  (Chief Miles O'Brien)

Teleplay By : Maurice Hurley

Story By : Kurt Michael Bensmiller

Directed By : Joseph L. Scanlan
¡The Icarus Factor [TNG #40]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/icarusfactor.iff
Stardate 42686.4

When Riker is offered a captains position on the Starship Aries, the U.S.S.
Enterprise heads for Starbase Montgomery so he can be briefed on the
assignment.

Arriving at the Starbase, Riker is visibly shaken when his father, Kyle, whom
Riker hasn't seen in 15 years, is beamed aboard to brief him. Although it
immediately becomes apparent that their relationship is strained, Riker
summarily rejects Kyle's efforts to reconcile with his son.

Meanwhile, Worf is showing increased hostility toward the crew for no apparent
reason. Wesley's investigation into the cause of Worf's uncharacteristic
behavior soon reveals that he is feeling culturally isolated because it is the
tenth anniversary of his Age of Ascension, a ritual marking a new level of
Klingon spiritual attainment.

To help Worf celebrate his anniversary, Data, Geordi and Wesley surprise him
by recreating a Klingon ritual chamber in the holodeck. They are, in turn,
surprised to learn that the ritual is a test of a Klingon's ability to endure
pain at the hands of his friends.

While Riker packs for his new assignment, Kyle's attempts at reconciliation
are again rebuffed, prompting him to challenge his son to a Anbo-Jytsu match,
the ultimate martial art. The match gives Kyle the opportunity he needs to
finally resolve his conflicted relationship with his son.

As the crew sullenly prepares to leave the starbase without Riker, he
surprises them by appearing on the Bridge, declaring his intent to stay on as
First Officer.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Lance Spellerberg  (Ensign Herbert)
       Mitchell Ryan      (Kyle Riker)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : David Assael
              Robert L. McCullough

Story By : David Assael

Directed By : Robert Iscove
¡Pen Pals [TNG #41]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/penpals.iff
Stardate 42695.3

Data fights for a friend's life and Wesley is put to the test when the U.S.S.
Enterprise probes dangerous geological activity in the Selcundi Drema
planetary system.

Unbeknownst to the crew, Data has become pen pals with a little girl named
Sarjenka who lives on Drema IV, one of the planets under investigation. When
Data tells Picard of his communications with Sarjenka, he learns that her
planet is in danger of imminent self-destruction as a result of growing
stresses beneath its surface.

Meanwhile, to help further Wesley's education as a Starfleet Ensign, Riker
puts him in charge of the mineral surveys which will determine what's causing
the quakes and volcanic eruptions on Drema IV. Against his better judgment,
Wesley allows the older crew members under his command to talk him out of
ordering a detailed and time-consuming analysis. Later, a discussion with
Riker gives Wesley the confidence to order the tests, which soon reveal the
cause of the geological disturbances.

Shortly thereafter, Picard agrees to enlist the U.S.S. Enterprise's resources
to help save the inhabitants of Drema IV. When Data loses contact with
Sarjenka, he beams down to the planet to guide her to a place where she can
wait safely until the U.S.S. Enterprise launches probes which will save her
homeland.

But soon, realizing that Sarjenka's planet will tear itself apart more quickly
than anticipated, Data has the girl beamed aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise for
safekeeping. After Sarjenka witnesses the launching of torpedoes which will
prevent a geological disaster, she is beamed back to her now safe home.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Ann H. Gillespie  (Ensign Hildebrandt)
       Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Nicholas Cascone  (Ensign Davies)
       Nikki Cox         (Sarjenka)
       Whitney Rydbeck   (Ensign Alans)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Melinda M. Snodgrass

Story By : Hannah Louise Shearer

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡Q Who? [TNG #42]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/qwho.iff
Stardate 42761.3

Picard's nemesis, the powerful, extra-dimensional being named Q, hurls the
U.S.S. Enterprise across the galaxy after Picard refuses to let him become a
member of the crew.

Immediately upon arriving in this unexplored part of the galaxy, the U.S.S.
Enterprise encounters an alien ship. Suddenly, two Borg - part organic and
part artificial beings - appear in the Main Engineering room. Unfortunately,
the U.S.S. Enterprise's defenses are helpless against the powerful aliens, who
begin draining information from ship's computers.

Then, having surveyed the ship's weakened defensive capabilities, the Borg
vessel demands the surrender of the U.S.S. Enterprise. When Picard refuses, a
short but fierce battle ensues, leaving both ships badly damaged and 18
Enterprise crew members dead. Desperate to learn more about this seemingly
invincible enemy, Picard sends an Away Team to investigate the Borg ship,
which is controlled by the collective minds of all the Borg, rather than by an
individual leader.

When Data reports that the Borg are busy repairing their vessel, Picard
quickly orders the Away Team to beam back so that the U.S.S. Enterprise can
make its escape while the aliens are dormant. But as soon as the ship begins
moving, the Borg give chase.

With the Borg vessel gaining on the U.S.S. Enterprise, Q appears on the bridge
to taunt Picard with insults about the inadequacies of the starship. As the
Borg close in and prepare to finish off the ship and crew, Picard admits to Q
that he needs his help. Delighted with the captain's confession, Q instantly
hurls the Enterprise out of the remote part of the galaxy and back to safety.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       John de Lancie   (Q)
       Lycia Naff       (Ensign Sonya Gomez)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Maurice Hurley

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Samaritan Snare [TNG #43]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/samaritan.iff
Stardate 42779.1

In order for Wesley to complete his Starfleet exams, he must travel to
Starbase 515 in the Scylla Sector. He is unexpectedly joined on his trip by
Captain Picard, who has been ordered by Dr. Pulaski to undergo a cardiac
replacement operation.

While Picard and Wesley are away, the crew responds to a distress call from
the Pakleds, a race of lethargic humanoids. It seems that their ship, the
Mondor, requires extensive repairs. To help expedite the process, Riker beams
Geordi aboard the Pakled vessel. Sensing that the Pakleds' intentions are less
than friendly, Troi expresses concern for Geordi's safety.

After making the necessary repairs, Geordi prepares to return to the U.S.S.
Enterprise, but he is suddenly disarmed by the Pakleds, who refuse to release
him until Riker surrenders all of their computer information. Hoping to buy
time and outsmart the dim-witted Pakleds, Riker implies that Geordi is a
weapons expert. The Pakleds then abandon thoughts of computer information and
demand that Geordi upgrade their defensive capabilities.

Unable to reason with the Pakleds, the U.S.S. Enterprise crew considers a show
of force to rescue Geordi. Just then, an emergency summons is received from
Starbase 515 indicating that complications in Picard's heart surgery have left
him near death. The Enterprise quickly fires a harmless blast of light at the
Pakleds, which frightens the weak race long enough to secure Geordi's release
and allow the crew to race to Picard's side.

On Starbase 515, Picard regains consciousness and learns that his life was
saved, thanks to the surgical skills of the Enterprise's own Dr. Pulaski.
Wesley soon rejoins Picard on the ship, having passed his Starfleet exams with
flying colors.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Christopher Collins  (Grebnedlog)
       Daniel Benzali       (Surgeon)
       Leslie Morris        (Reginod)
       Lycia Naff           (Ensign Sonya Gomez)
       Tzi Ma               (Biomolecular Specialist)
       Wil Wheaton          (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Robert L. McCullough

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Up The Long Ladder [TNG #44]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/longladder.iff
Stardate 42823.2

In response to an urgent distress signal, the U.S.S. Enterprise ventures into
the Ficus Sector to save the Bringloidis, a society whose planet is about to
be destroyed by stellar flares. Upon assessing the situation, Riker beams
aboard the entire Bringloidi civilization, which consists of about 200 humans
and animals, led by a jovial man named Danilo Odell and his head-strong but
beautiful daughter Brenna.

Picard soon learns that the Bringloidis had traveled from earth years ago with
a second colony of humans. Not interested in remaining on Bringloid, the other
group dropped off Danilo and his people and moved on to an unknown
destination.

Suspecting that the second colony might also be in danger, Picard engages the
crew on a search, which leads to the planet Mariposa. When an Away Team beams
down, they learn that the entire Mariposan society is composed of clones made
from the five crew members who survived their ship's crash landing.

Suffering from a degenerative condition known as Replicative Fading, the
Mariposans ask the U.S.S. Enterprise officers to donate fresh DNA so they can
clone strong new citizens. When Riker and Dr. Pulaski refuse their request,
the Mariposans render them unconscious and take the valuable cells from their
bodies.

Upon returning to the U.S.S. Enterprise, Dr. Pulaski is shocked to discover
that both she and Riker are missing cells. The two beam back down to the
Mariposans' lab to destroy their clones, which have not yet fully matured. The
Mariposan leader is furious, since without new DNA, his race will soon be
extinct.

In an attempt to resettle the Bringloidis and help the Mariposans, Picard
suggests that the two races be left alone to breed naturally, rather than by
cloning. Initially reluctant, both sides agree and the group that started out
together on earth ends up together again.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Barrie Ingham   (Danilo O'Dell)
       Colm Meaney     (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Jon de Vries    (Prime Minister Granger)
       Rosalyn Landor  (Brenna)

Written By : Melinda M. Snodgrass

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡Manhunt [TNG #45]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/manhunt.iff
Stardate 42859.2

While transporting delegates to a special Federation conference on Pacifica,
the U.S.S. Enterprise picks up two representatives from the newly discovered
planet of Antede III. Unaccustomed to space flight, the aliens arrive on the
ship in a self-induced coma to deal with the trauma of their voyage.

En route to the conference, Picard and the crew are taken aback by the
unexpected arrival of Mrs. Troi, who also happens to be on her way to the
meeting on Pacifica. Upon finding himself the object of Mrs. Troi's passions,
Picard turns to Counselor Troi for advice. She explains that her mother is at
"the phase," a mid-life period when a Betazoid woman's sex drive increases
tenfold!

Reluctant to reject Mrs. Troi's amorous advances, Picard decides to seek
refuge from her in the holodeck. As a result, she redirects her search for a
mate to the other men on the U.S.S. Enterprise. Her "manhunt" ends on the
Bridge when Mrs. Troi eyes Riker and announces to the crew that the two will
soon be wed.

Meanwhile, when Dr. Pulaski reports that the Antedians are regaining
consciousness, Riker enters the holodeck to inform Picard of the delegates'
condition. He is followed by Lwaxana, who loses interest in both him and
Picard after meeting Rex, the charming bartender in a Holodeck-created 1940s
bar. To her chagrin, she later finds out that her dream man is only an
illusion.

Returning to reality, Picard and Riker discover that the Antedians have fully
awakened. They also learn, via Mrs. Troi's telepathic powers, that the
Antedians are not delegates, but assassins sent to blow up the conference site
using explosives hidden in the lining of their ceremonial robes.

While the Antedians are taken into protective custody, Picard thanks Mrs. Troi
for saving the lives of the crew and assuring that the conference will proceed
without incident. As Mrs. Troi prepares to beam down to Pacifica, she gives
the captain one last playful reproach for his "lustful" thoughts as she
dematerializes.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Carel Struycken  (Mr. Homn)
       Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Majel Barrett    (Lwaxana Troi)
       Mick Fleetwood   (Antidean Dignitary)
       Rhonda Aldrich   (Madeline)
       Robert Costanzo  (Slade Blender)
       Robert O'Reilly  (Tough Guy)
       Rod Arrants      (Rex)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)
       Wren T. Brown    (Transport Pilot)

Written By : Terry Devereaux

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Emissary [TNG #46]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/emissary.iff
Stardate 42901.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise, obeying orders from the highest ranks of Starfleet
Command, beams aboard a special emissary named K'Ehleyr, a half-human,
half-Klingon female. The crew is pulled by Worf's coldness toward K'Ehleyr,
who informs them that they must intercept the T'Ong, a Klingon vessel whose
staff has been in cryogenic sleep for a century. She reveals that the Klingons
began their voyage while the Federation was still at war with the Klingon
Empire, and that if they awaken within striking range of key Federation
outposts, the results could be devastating.

Worf, shunning the emissary's friendly advances, reluctantly follows Picard's
orders to meet with K'Ehleyr about the volatile situation with the T'Ong.
However, their meeting quickly turns personal, revealing that the two were
once linked romantically. After a bitter argument, K'Ehleyr storms out.

To work out her frustrations, K'Ehleyr goes to the Holodeck where she does
Worf's rigorous calisthenics program. Worf joins her for the exercise, which
pits them in battle against deadly alien warriors. After completing the
program, an aroused Worf grabs K'Ehleyr and they consummate their passion. At
dawn, Worf asks her to take the Klingon oath of marriage which traditionally
follows intimacy, but she refuses.

Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise approaches the T'Ong, whose newly awakened
crew members begin firing at the ship. To prevent a fatal face-off, Worf
dresses in full Klingon Captain's regalia and presents himself to the T'Ong as
the commander of the U.S.S. Enterprise and demands their surrender. He
convinces the Klingon leaders that the war ended during the T'Ong's mission
and that the Klingons are now peaceful members of the Federation.

Following the T'Ong's surrender, K'Ehleyr prepares to take command of the
Klingon vessel and is escorted to the transporter room by Worf. There, the two
finally reconcile their differences and although K'Ehleyr bids him farewell,
she leaves Worf with the hope that their paths will cross again.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Anne Elizabeth Ramsay  (Ensign Clancy)
       Colm Meaney            (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Dietrich Bader         (Tactical Crewman)
       Georgann Johnson       (Admiral Gromek)
       Lance Le Gault         (K'Temoc)
       Suzie Plakson          (K'Ehleyr)

Teleplay By : Hans Beimler
              Richard Manning

Story By : Thomas H. Calder

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Peak Performance [TNG #47]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/peakperf.iff
Stardate 42923.4

As part of the first Starfleet Battle Simulation program, Picard and Riker are
tapped to compete against each other in a mock battle. Picard is given command
of the U.S.S. Enterprise, while Riker is assigned the Hathaway, a hopelessly
unequipped, 80-year-old vessel which he's given 48 hours to outfit for battle.
Acting as an observer of the exercise is Kolrami, a master strategist from the
Zakdorn race, which is reputed to have the greatest strategic minds in the
galaxy.

When Riker and his team beam aboard the Hathaway, they are shocked by its
dilapidated condition. It quickly becomes obvious that the outclassed ship's
only hope for victory lies in outwitting the U.S.S. Enterprise crew.

Meanwhile, Dr. Pulaski challenges the arrogant Kolrami to play Data in the
highly complex game of Strategema. Although Pulaski is certain that the
android's skills will prove superior to the Zakdorn's, Kolrami wins. When the
war games begin, the Hathaway deftly wins round one by distracting the U.S.S.
Enterprise with a holographic image of a Romulan warship, thus giving Riker's
crew the chance to record several electronic "hits." Moments later, when
Picard mistakes a real Ferengi warship for another holograph, he's stunned
when the Ferengi launch a ferocious assault. The now-crippled U.S.S.
Enterprise is ordered to surrender the Hathaway, which the Ferengi mistakenly
believe is armed with a secret weapons system. Unwilling to sacrifice the
lives of his friends, Picard masterminds a plan by which the Ferengi think
that the U.S.S. Enterprise has blown up the Hathaway, thus allowing the
smaller ship to warp speed away to safety.

With the war games completed, Data engages Kolrami in a rematch of Strategema.
When Data changes his strategy and forces the game to end in a stalemate,
Kolrami storms out, humiliated by the android, as the crew cheers Data's
victory.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Armin Shimerman  (Bractor)
       David L. Lander  (Ferengi Tactician)
       Glenn Morshower  (Ensign Burke)
       Leslie Neale     (Ensign Nagel)
       Roy Brocksmith   (Sirna Kolrami)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : David Kemper

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡Shades Of Gray [TNG #48]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/shadesgrey.iff
Stardate 42976.1

During a routine geological survey on Surata IV, Commander Riker's thigh is
pierced by a small thorn, which causes him to lose the feeling in his leg.
After beaming Riker back aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, Dr. Pulaski determines
that the thorn contains an unknown organism which is rapidly spreading
throughout his nervous system. If left unchecked, the microbe will soon reach
Riker's brain and kill him. Ironically, Pulaski has no way of decimating the
organism without destroying the nerves of the being it's inhabiting.

At first, Riker's affliction seems more of a nuisance than a threat. But
during a visit with Counselor Troi, his vital signs suddenly plummet and Riker
loses consciousness. Although Dr. Pulaski is able to stabilize his condition,
she discovers that the organism has spread to Riker's brain. In a desperate
attempt to keep his brain functioning, Pulaski begins electronically
stimulating his memory.

Soon, Riker's mind is filled with remembrances of his experiences aboard the
U.S.S. Enterprise. When a memory involving romance increases the growth rate
of the organism, Pulaski surmises that if positive emotions feed the invader,
negative emotions could kill it.

In an attempt to recall painful moments in Riker's past, Pulaski induces
memories of Tasha Yar's death, which successfully slows the organism's growth,
but only temporarily. Moments later, his vital signs plunge again.

Sensing that further stimulation of negative emotions will either kill Riker
or cure him, Pulaski induces the commander's most primitive memories of
survival. As his recollections grow more violent, Riker's body is wracked by a
massive convulsion. Just when it appears that Pulaski will lose him, Riker's
vital signs stabilize and the organism vanishes, just as quickly and
mysteriously as it appeared.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Diana Muldaur    (Dr. Katherine Pulaski)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney  (Chief Miles O'Brien)

Teleplay By : Hans Beimler
              Maurice Hurley
              Richard Manning

Story By : Maurice Hurley

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡The Ensigns Of Command [TNG #49]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/ensignscom.iff
Stardate 43133.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise receives a message from the Sheliak, who order the crew
to remove all humans from the planet Tau Cygna V. According to a Federation
treaty, the planet belongs to the alien race, who want to take control of
their property and have given the crew four days to evacuate the men and women
now living there. If the U.S.S. Enterprise does not complete the task, the
Sheliak will kill all of the humans, whom they consider "vermin."

Due to the high level of radiation on Tau Cygna V, which the colonists have
adapted to over several generations, Data is the only crew member capable of
surviving the mission. After Riker speculates that there should be about a
dozen humans there, Picard sends the android down to the planet to commence
evacuation procedures. But the matter is complicated by Data's reports that
15,000 colonists are living on Tau Cygna V and Worf's estimate that
transporting them off the planet will take several weeks, far longer than the
Sheliak ultimatum.

What's worse, Data meets resistance to the evacuation plan from Gosheven, the
leader of the colony, who refuses to abandon the planet. While Data tries to
change Gosheven's mind, Picard's pleas for additional time from the Sheliak,
who stick to every word of their 500,000 word treaty, are flatly refused.

While a stirring speech by Data convinces some colonists to revolt against
Gosheven, Picard buys time when he finds a clause in the treaty that allows
him to demand third party arbitration of the evacuation dispute. He
deliberately chooses a race in hibernation for six months, which forces the
Sheliak's hand and they agree to give Picard three weeks to relocate the
colonists.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney     (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Eileen Seeley   (Ard'rian McKenzie)
       Grainger Hines  (Gosheven)
       Mark L. Taylor  (Haritath)
       Mart McChesney  (Sheliak)
       Richard James   (Kentor)
       Wil Wheaton     (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Melinda M. Snodgrass

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Evolution [TNG #50]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/evolution.iff
Stardate 43125.8

Dr. Paul Stubbs, an eminent scientist, has come aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise
to study the explosion of a star in the Kavis Alpha Sector, which occurs only
once every 196 years. As the crew prepares to launch Stubbs' research unit,
the ship is suddenly drawn into the fiery path of the stellar matter. The
U.S.S. Enterprise computers initially fail to respond to commands to
stabilize, yet even after the ship is restored to normal, the computer reports
no malfunction.

Faced with the potential breakdown of the ship's main computer, Picard warns
Stubbs that the mission may have to be aborted. Stubbs, who has devoted his
career to studying the once-in-a-lifetime event, is insistent that his project
be completed at any cost. Meanwhile, Wesley is shaken by the realization that
an experiment he had been working on may be at the root of the ship's trouble.

Knowing he must confide in someone, Wesley talks to his mother, Dr. Beverly
Crusher, who has returned to the U.S.S. Enterprise after a year's service at
Starfleet Medical. He explains that during a genetics experiment, he allowed
two nanites, robots tiny enough to enter living cells, to interact. It now
appears that they are rapidly replicating and essentially eating the main
computer, shutting down the power, weapons, communications and life support
systems on the ship, one by one.

What's more, the nanites have evolved to the point where they have become, in
effect, a civilization capable of intelligent thought. When Picard refuses to
destroy them, Stubbs fears that his life's work will be ruined and attempts to
kill them. In retaliation, the nanites attack Stubbs and render the ship
powerless.

Desperate to stop the nanites, Picard asks Data to find a way to communicate
with them. The robots, distrustful of humans, refuse to agree to a cease fire.
As a gesture of good faith, Data allows the nanites to enter his circuits and
manipulate his verbal programs, thus using him as a conduit for face-to-face
communication.

"Speaking" through Data, the nanites reveal that they meant no harm, but
needed to explore the computer system. After Stubbs apologizes for trying to
kill them and arranges a new home for them on planet Kavis Alpha IV, the
nanites relent and even help reconstruct the computer core in time for Stubbs
to complete his experiment.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Ken Jenkins      (Dr. Paul Stubbs)
       Mary McCusker    (Nurse)
       Randal Patrick   (Crewman #1)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Michael Piller

Story By : Michael Piller
           Michael Wagner

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡The Survivors [TNG #51]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/survivors.iff
Stardate 43152.4

Beaming down to Rana IV, the Away Team finds that the entire planet has been
obliterated, except for a patch of land where an undamaged home still stands.
Inside, they meet the sole survivors of the attack - Kevin and Rishon
Uxbridge, an elderly couple who cannot explain why they survived the
devastation and refuse to leave the decimated colony.

Meanwhile, back on the Enterprise, Counselor Troi's head is inexplicably
filled with music which continues to repeat unabated, day and night. She
confesses her problem to Picard and admits that she is unable to read the
emotions of the Uxbridges as a result.

Suddenly, the ship that attacked Rana IV returns to the area and fires upon
the U.S.S. Enterprise, crippling the starship's weapons systems. In sick bay,
Dr. Crusher tries to relieve the incessant music in Troi's brain by heavily
sedating her, then inducing a coma, but nothing seems to work.

Following his hunch that the warship somehow responds to the Uxbridges'
wishes, Picard confronts them. Though Kevin angrily insists that he and his
wife do not require the crew's help, Picard tells the couple that the U.S.S.
Enterprise will remain in orbit as long as the two of them are alive.

A short time later, the warship reappears and obliterates the Uxbridges' home.
In response, the U.S.S. Enterprise destroys the warship. Despite the fact that
the crew can find no signs of life on Rana IV, Picard insists upon keeping the
planet under surveillance.

Within hours, Geordi reports that the Uxbridges' home has reappeared on the
planet - what's more, the couple is alive and well inside it! Picard beams
them up to the ship and forces Kevin to admit that his home, his wife and the
warship are merely reproductions of the originals, which were destroyed in the
attack.

Kevin confesses that he is a Douwd, an immortal being capable of creating
disguises and false surroundings. He explains that after taking a human form
50 years ago, he visited earth and fell in love with Rishon, who remained
unaware of his true identity and magic powers throughout their marriage.

Unfortunately, when the aggressive species known as the Husnock attacked Rana
IV, Kevin refused to fight back or kill anyone. However, his wife joined the
battle and was murdered by the Husnock, along with everyone else in the
colony.

Enraged by his wife's death, Kevin then summoned his magical powers and in an
instant of grief, destroyed the Husnock race of 50 billion. Fearful that Troi
would discover his secret, Uxbridge put the music in her mind to block her
telepathic powers.

Stunned by Uxbridge's confession, Picard tells Kevin that he is not qualified
to judge his crimes and returns the man to his planet. But before leaving the
Enterprise, Kevin restores Troi to normal.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Anne Haney     (Rishon Uxbridge)
       John Anderson  (Kevin Uxbridge)
       Wil Wheaton    (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Michael Wagner

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Who Watches The Watchers [TNG #52]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/whowatches.iff
Stardate 43173.5

A team of Federation anthropologists, working in a camouflaged outpost on
Mintaka III, have been observing the Mintakans - a race of Vulcan-like
humanoids whose development is at the equivalent of earth's Bronze Age. But
when an explosion rips through the post, the expedition's leader, Barron, and
his assistant, an elderly woman named Warren, are seriously injured. A third
team member, a young man named Palmer, is dazed in the blast and wanders away
from the site.

Beaming down to assist the Federation officials, the Away Team is spotted by
two Mintakans, Liko and his son Oji. Stunned by the sight of Warren being
beamed up to the U.S.S. Enterprise, Liko accidentally slips and is critically
injured in a fall. To save his life, Dr. Crusher beams Liko up to the ship,
although it violates the Federation's Prime Directive, which states that
members are not to interfere with other cultures.

Regaining consciousness in Sickbay, Liko overhears Picard promising Barron
that he will find Palmer. Despite the fact that Crusher performs a procedure
to remove his short term memory, it doesn't work and Liko returns to the
planet describing "the Picard" to other Mintakans as a god, capable of healing
wounds and reversing death.

To find Palmer and minimize any cultural contamination, Riker and Troi beam
down to the planet disguised as Mintakans. They overhear Liko telling his
friends about "the Picard's" powers and are shocked when three Mintakan
hunters walk in carrying Palmer. Liko immediately assumes that Palmer is a
servant of "the Picard" and it would please the god if they presented Palmer
to him.

While Troi diverts the Mintakans, Riker beams himself and Palmer up to the
Enterprise. When Liko and the group realize what Riker has done, they fear
that "the Picard" will be angry with them for losing Palmer. To redeem
themselves, they seize Troi with the intention of killing her to prove their
loyalty to "the Picard."

Fearing for Troi's life, Picard has Nuria, the Mintakan leader, beamed aboard
the U.S.S. Enterprise, hoping that if she is convinced that he is not a god,
she will be able to persuade her people of that fact. Despite all his efforts,
Picard is unable to convince Nuria that he is a mere mortal - until she sees
him stand by helplessly in Sickbay when Warren dies and she realizes Picard
has no power over life and death.

Just as Troi is about to be sacrificed, Nuria and Picard return to Mintaka
III. Liko, still believing that Picard is a god, attempts to prove Picard's
omnipotence by firing a crossbow at him. Only when he sees Picard suffering
from his wound is Liko convinced of his mistake. Troi is freed and after
Picard is healed, he bids farewell to the Mintakans, who are left to progress
on their own.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : James Greene         (Dr. Barron)
       James McIntire       (Hali)
       John McLiam          (Fento)
       Kathryn Leigh Scott  (Nuria)
       Lois Hall            (Mary Warren)
       Pamela Segall        (Oji)
       Ray Wise             (Liko)

Written By : Hans Beimler
             Richard Manning

Directed By : Robert Wiemer
¡The Bonding [TNG #53]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/bonding.iff
Stardate 43198.7

An Away Team, led by Worf, investigates a barren planet once inhabited by the
Koinonians, a race which destroyed themselves in a lengthy war. While
exploring an underground tunnel, archeologist Marla Aster is killed by a bomb
buried years earlier beneath the surface. Worf, though injured in the blast
himself, feels he is to blame for the tragedy, despite Picard's assurances
that it was an accident.

Lt. Aster is survived by a son, 12-year-old Jeremy. Together with Troi, Picard
informs the child of his mother's tragic death. Knowing that Jeremy's father
is also deceased, Troi is concerned by the child's stoic reaction to the news.
Worf, himself an orphan, feels a special kinship with Jeremy and tells Troi of
his wish to perform a Klingon ceremony, the R'uustai (or Bonding), with the
boy.

A short time later, Troi detects an alien presence on board the U.S.S.
Enterprise. In his quarters, Jeremy senses a movement and turns to see what
appears to be his late mother, telling him that they are both going to leave
the starship and live on the planet. When Worf discovers Lt. Aster's impostor,
she vanishes. She later reappears and transforms Jeremy's room into the Aster
home on Earth, as the confused boy rushes to the warmth of his "mother's"
arms.

Determining that an energy beam from the planet is powering the image of
Aster, Picard orders the crew to sever it. Undaunted, the energy field then
gathers into a glowing mass, enters the ship and tries to gain control of the
transporter room, while Jeremy and his mother hurry toward it to make their
escape.

When the alien Aster is trapped in the Enterprise's forcefield, she confesses
that she is part of a lifeform that survived the Koinonian Wars. In an effort
to prevent further suffering from that conflict, the being recreated Jeremy's
mother and home to comfort him.

Wesley, who suffered the loss of his own father, joins Picard in explaining to
Jeremy that it is part of being human to mourn and feel pain, as well as joy.
At first torn between his "mother" and reality, Jeremy soon decides to stay on
board the U.S.S. Enterprise. After the lifeform leaves the ship, Worf performs
the R'uustai with Jeremy, making them brothers forever.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Gabriel Damon      (Jeremy Aster)
       Susan Powell       (Lt. Marla Aster)

Written By : Ronald D. Moore

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡Booby Trap [TNG #54]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/boobytrap.iff
Stardate 43205.6

While investigating a signal emitting from an ancient Promellian battle
cruiser, Picard and the Away Team discover a ship that has been floating in
space for over 1000 years. There are no survivors on the vessel, which has
remained intact for centuries.

As the crew tries to determine what happened to the ill-fated cruiser, the
Enterprise is plagued by a rapidly increasing energy drain which traps the
ship in a holding pattern. Worse yet, the crew is simultaneously being
bombarded by radiation and raising the protective shields only depletes more
power.

Geordi, unable to determine the cause of the rapid energy loss, informs the
Bridge that all of the ship's power will be depleted in three hours. And
without energy for its shields, the entire crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise will
be killed by the radiation.

In search of clues to help free the U.S.S. Enterprise, Riker and Data return
to the ancient battle cruiser and begin reading over the ship's logs.
Meanwhile, Geordi enlists the aid of Dr. Leah Brahms, a beautiful young
engineering expert, to help him save the Enterprise from disaster.

The Promellian logs reveal that the ship was trapped by Aceton assimilators,
devices which attract energy, modify it and convert it to radiation. During a
centuries old battle between the Menthars and Promellians, the Menthars had
used the assimilators to ensnare their enemy in the booby trap. The
Promellians, in trying to escape, unknowingly supplied the power for their own
destruction.

Meanwhile, Geordi tells Picard that their only hope for survival requires
turning command of the starship over to the computer. But while running
simulations of the maneuver, Geordi discovers that the radiation force
striking the ship has reached fatal levels.

With time running out, Geordi abandons the idea of overpowering the booby
trap. Instead, he gives the U.S.S. Enterprise all of the power it can muster
in one quick blast and then immediately shuts down all non-essential power,
allowing the ship to break the inertia and free itself from the trap.

Picard, taking control of the U.S.S. Enterprise, maneuvers it out of further
danger by using the gravitational pull of an asteroid to slingshot his vessel
out of the battle zone. To prevent other ships from suffering a similar fate,
the U.S.S. Enterprise destroys the entire asteroid field and resumes its
original course.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Albert Hall      (Galek Dar)
       Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Julie Warner     (Christy Henshaw)
       Susan Gibney     (Dr. Leah Brahms)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Michael Piller
              Richard Danus
              Ron Roman

Story By : Michael Wagner
           Ron Roman

Directed By : Gabrielle Beaumont
¡The Enemy [TNG #55]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/enemy.iff
Stardate 43349.2

While investigating a distress signal on the Federation planet Galorndon Core,
Riker, Worf and Geordi discover the wreckage of a crashed Romulan vessel and a
dying Romulan officer, Patahk. Due to the fierce electrical storms on the
surface, beaming up and down to Galorndon is restricted by brief "windows," or
breaks in the storm, which occur sporadically throughout the day.
Unfortunately, Geordi loses contact with the Away Team and is trapped in a
pit, from which he is unable to contact Riker and Worf before they are forced
to beam back to the U.S.S. Enterprise with Patahk.

Dr. Crusher's examination of Patahk soon reveals neural degeneration caused by
exposure to the planet's magnetic fields, which increases the crew's concern
for Geordi. Tensions rise when the U.S.S. Enterprise learns that a Romulan
warship intends to cross the Neutral Zone and enter restricted Federation
territory to rescue any crash survivors. When Picard informs the Romulan
captain, Tomalak, that Patahk is aboard his ship, Tomalak insists that the two
ships rendezvous and that Patahk be returned.

Meanwhile, the crew launches a signal probe to locate Geordi. As he frees
himself from the pit and makes his way toward the beacon, Geordi is ambushed
and taken prisoner by Bochra, a second survivor of the Romulan crash. Before
long, however, the electrical storms on Galorndon wreak havoc on Bochra's
nervous system and render Geordi's visor inoperable, temporarily blinding him.
Geordi is able to convince the critically ill Romulan that their only hope for
survival is to beam aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, and the two enemies join
forces to locate the beacon.

Back on the starship, Dr. Crusher informs Worf that a transfusion of his
ribosome's is the only hope for Patahk's survival. But the Klingon officer
refuses to help because his parents were killed by Romulans years earlier.
Although Picard explains the drastic political implications of a Romulan dying
in Federation hands, Worf stands firm. When Patahk dies, Tomalak prepares to
retaliate by attacking the U.S.S. Enterprise. Tomalak's actions force Picard
to raise his ship's shields, preventing transporting activity, just as a
window in the storm appears.

With time running out, Picard informs Tomalak that the U.S.S. Enterprise is
lowering its shields to beam Geordi and a Romulan officer aboard. Knowing that
an aggressive response could lead to an all-out war between the Federation and
Romulans, Tomalak allows Picard to proceed. Geordi and Bochra return to the
U.S.S. Enterprise, where they regain their neural functions and bid each other
farewell.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Andreas Katsulas  (Cmdr. Tomalak)
       Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       John Snyder       (Centurion Bochra)
       Steve Rankin      (Patahk)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : David Kemper
             Michael Piller

Directed By : David Carson
¡The Price [TNG #56]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/price.iff
Stardate 43385.6

The crew plays host to a group of visiting dignitaries who are negotiating for
the rights to a stable wormhole discovered by the Barzan, which could provide
a valuable shortcut through the galaxy. Stressed out by her job as the ship's
counselor, Troi reluctantly attends a reception for the representatives.
There, she is immediately drawn to the Chrysalian delegate, Devinoni Ral. The
two share an instant attraction which soon leads them into a passionate
affair.

Meanwhile, negotiations for the wormhole grow increasingly tense. Determined
to win the rights, the Ferengi secretly inoculate the Federation delegate,
Mendoza, leaving him too ill to continue his task. In his place, Picard
selects Riker to represent Federation interests.

Concerned that there is little concrete information about the coveted
wormhole, Riker suggests that the U.S.S. Enterprise conduct an expedition into
it before committing the Federation to a binding contract. Picard agrees and
orders Geordi and Data to pilot a shuttlecraft into the hole. Not to be
outdone by the Federation, the Ferengi send a craft of their own into the
hole.

Before long, however, Geordi and Data determine that the wormhole is not as
stable or as valuable as it looks. They inform the Ferengi shuttlecraft pilots
of their discovery but the Ferengi ignore them. Back on the U.S.S. Enterprise,
negotiations for the hole continue, as does the romance between Troi and
Devinoni. Although she's fallen in love with Devinoni, Troi begins to have
some reservations about him when she learns that he is part Betazoid and has
been using his empathic powers to manipulate his competitors in the
negotiations.

Masterfully maneuvering his position, Devinoni narrows the competition down to
the Federation and the Chrysalians, whom he represents. Just when it appears
that Riker will secure the wormhole rights, the Ferengi threaten to destroy
the hole, insisting that an "informed source" has told them that the
Federation has made a secret deal with the Barzan premier.

Devinoni takes advantage of the conflict and the Barzan leader's wishes for
peace to win the rights to the hole. When Troi senses that Devinoni staged the
entire incident to undermine the Federation, her sense of duty compels her to
speak out. But before the Barzan premier has a chance to revoke the agreement
with Devinoni, the Enterprise shuttle appears from the wormhole and announces
that it is worthless. The dashing delegate then bids farewell to Troi and
returns to face the Chrysalians.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Castulo Guerra     (Seth Mendoza)
       Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Dan Shor           (Dr. Arridor)
       Elizabeth Hoffman  (Premier Bhavani)
       Kevin Peter Hall   (Leyor)
       Matt McCoy         (Devinoni Ral)
       Scott Thomson      (Daimon Goss)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Hannah Louise Shearer

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡The Vengeance Factor [TNG #57]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/vengeance.iff
Stardate 43421.9

After finding traces of Acamarian blood at a looted Federation outpost, Picard
leads the crew to Acamar III. There, he learns that the responsibility for the
attack on the outpost lies with the Gatherers, a thieving band of renegade
Acamarians who split off from their culture 100 years ago, following centuries
of battles between rival clans. When Acamar's leader, Marouk, expresses her
desire to reintegrate the Gatherers into her now peaceful society, Picard
offers the services of the Enterprise to find the bandits.

The search leads to a Gatherers camp in the Hroni Cluster, where the pack
leader, Brull, agrees to meet with Marouk to discuss her proposal for amnesty.
During the meeting, however, Marouk's young servant Yuta kills an elderly
Gatherer from the Lornack clan named Volnoth, though she makes it appear as if
he suffered a heart attack. Dr. Crusher soon discovers that Volnoth was
murdered by a microvirus specifically engineered to prove fatal to his system.

Despite Brull's interest in Marouk's proposals, he insists that they must meet
with the Gatherer chief, Chorgan, before any final decisions can be made. En
route to Chorgan's hideout, Riker is drawn to the enigmatic Yuta, who claims
to desire freedom, but alludes to the fact that her path in life has already
been determined. Adding to Yuta's mystery, Riker learns that she serves Marouk
not by command, but by choice.

Although Chorgan is at first violently opposed to talking with Marouk, Wesley
is able to convince him that it would be in his best interests to do so. While
Marouk attends a meeting on the Gatherer ship, Riker learns that Yuta was
responsible for Volnoth's death and has killed others in the Lornack clan -
whose surviving members include Chorgan. Knowing that Yuta is attending
Marouk's conference with Chorgan, Riker beams aboard the Gatherer vessel.

Riker arrives just in time to prevent Yuta from killing the unsuspecting
Chorgan. Yuta proclaims that she is only seeking vengeance for the massacre of
her clan, the Tralestas, by Chorgan's clan. She explains that her grandfather,
the only other survivor of the attack, altered her cells to make her touch
fatal to the Lornacks, and that she used her position with Marouk to get close
to the last remaining members of the Lornack clan. When Yuta makes another
attempt to touch Chorgan, Riker is forced to destroy her with his phaser, thus
ending her mission. The peace talks, however, are saved.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Elkanah J. Burns  (Temarek)
       Joey Aresco       (Brull)
       Lisa Wilcox       (Yuta)
       Marc Lawrence     (Volnoth)
       Nancy Parsons     (Sovereign Marouk)
       Stephen Lee       (Chorgan)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Sam Rolfe

Directed By : Timothy Bond
¡The Defector [TNG #58]
1989044*o*Data/STNG/defector.iff
Stardate 43462.5

Answering a request for asylum from a Romulan scout ship, the crew beams
aboard. Although he claims to be a low-ranking logistics officer, the vessel's
pilot, Setal, shares a startling revelation: the Romulans have established a
base on Nelvana III, from which they plan to launch a major offensive to
reclaim the Neutral Zone. Informing Picard that the assault against the
Federation will begin in 48 hours, the Romulan defector begs the captain to
destroy the base to prevent a catastrophic war.

Without firm evidence supporting Setal's claims, Picard fears that Setal's
story may be a Romulan ploy to trick the U.S.S. Enterprise into initiating
war. His suspicions are heightened when Setal informs Picard that he is really
a Romulan Admiral named Jarok, who once led a massacre of Federation outposts.
Although Jarok now claims that he only wants to keep the peace, Worf alerts
Picard that Klingon ships in the area have warned him not to trust the
Romulan, since his race had once tricked a great Klingon commander into
appearing the aggressor in a war.

With time running out on a volatile situation, Picard meets with his security
officer, Worf, and then leads the U.S.S. Enterprise through the Neutral Zone
to Nelvana III. When a closer probe of the planet reveals no Romulan power
base, Jarok is dumbfounded.

Suddenly, the U.S.S. Enterprise is surrounded by three Romulan warships and
ordered to surrender by Tomalak, a commander who once confronted Picard over a
skirmish in the Galorndon Core. Picard realizes that Jarok, who had recently
been reassigned to a position of lower rank, was used by the Romulans to lure
the U.S.S. Enterprise into a trap. The information about the base was all just
a ruse to test Jarok's loyalty to his leaders.

Picard refuses Tomalak's demands that the crew surrender and, at a prearranged
moment, three Klingon warships uncloak, surrounding the Romulan ships. The
odds stacked against him, Tomalak backs down and retreats, promising Picard
that they will meet again. Knowing that his defection has cost him his family
and his homeland, a despondent Jarok commits suicide.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Andreas Katsulas  (Cmdr. Tomalak)
       James Sloyan      (Admiral Jarok)
       John Hancock      (Admiral Haden)
       S.A. Templeman    (John Bates)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Ronald D. Moore

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡The Hunted [TNG #59]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/hunted.iff
Stardate 43489.2

The U.S.S. Enterprise visits the planet Angosia, which recently emerged
victorious from a lengthy war and is now seeking membership in the Federation.
During the visit, a violent prisoner in Angosia's penal colony escapes and is
later captured with the help of the crew. The escapee, Roga Danar, is detained
aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise while repairs to the damaged prison can be
completed.

Although Troi has been warned that Danar is extremely dangerous, she is drawn
to him when she senses that he is being tortured by nightmares. Meeting with
the prisoner, she comes to believe that he is inherently non-violent, despite
his reputation.

A check of Danar's records reveals that he is a military prisoner who served
Angosia honorably in the recent war. He informs Troi that when he volunteered
for service, his government conducted intense psychological and biochemical
modifications on him and his fellow soldiers. When the men, programmed for
violence in any situation threatening their survival, had difficulty
readjusting to civilian life, they were exiled to Lunar V.

Confronted by Picard with Danar's story, Angosian Prime Minister Nayrok
basically tells him to mind his own business and insists that the prisoner be
returned. Picard reluctantly informs Danar that he will be sent back to prison
via a police shuttle.

But during the transfer, Danar hijacks the shuttle and returns to Lunar V,
where he leads an assault on the prison. Nayrok then sends an urgent message
to Picard, informing him that hundreds of rioting prisoners are headed for the
Angosian capitol.

In response to Nayrok's pleas, Picard leads an Away Team to Angosia, where he
finds Nayrok and the members of his senate arming themselves against an
attack. Just then, Danar and his comrades burst in, but knowing that the
veterans will not kill unless their own lives are threatened, Picard vows that
he and his crew will not fire upon the prisoners. Instead, Nayrok is urged to
take steps to reprogram the soldiers and welcome them back into society - only
then, Picard asserts upon leaving Nayrok and Danar, will the Federation
reconsider the planet's application for membership.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Andrew Bicknell   (Wagnor)
       Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       J. Michael Flynn  (Zayner)
       James Cromwell    (Nayrok)
       Jeff McCarthy     (Roga Danar)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Robin Bernheim

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡The High Ground [TNG #60]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/highground.iff
Stardate 43510.7

While delivering medical supplies to a planet involved in a lengthy civil war,
Dr. Crusher is taken hostage by Finn, the leader of a radical separatist
organization. Although at first fearful for her life, Beverly soon learns that
she has been kidnapped to provide expert medical care for terrorists dying
from the effects of an interdimensional transporter. Although the
nuclear-powered device allows the rebels to move at high speeds and to escape
detection by Rutian sensors, its end result is fatal internal damage.

Certain that Finn and his followers will use Beverly as a bargaining chip for
their cause, Picard asks Riker to rescue Dr. Crusher with the help of Alexana
Devos, the leader of the Rutian police. Alexana, determined not to compromise
her hard-line position with the terrorists, is furious when Riker tells one of
Finn's men that the Federation is willing to negotiate for Beverly's release.

Alexana's skepticism is justified when Finn, certain that the U.S.S.
Enterprise has joined forces with the Rutians against his people, launches a
deadly assault on the U.S.S. Enterprise. Although Geordi is able to remove a
bomb from the vessel before it detonates, several crew members are killed in
the skirmish and Captain Picard is taken hostage with Beverly.

At his hideout, Finn tells Picard that he welcomes Federation involvement in
his cause, since that will force the Rutian government to make important
concessions. On board the U.S.S. Enterprise, Riker plots a surprise attack on
Finn's underground headquarters.

But when Riker, Worf and Alexana show up in the hideout, Alexana shoots Finn
to death after the terrorist leader appears ready to execute Picard. Riker
chides Alexana for her actions, but she tells him that Finn's death will
result in less bloodshed than if he had been taken prisoner and his followers
attempted to free him. With Beverly and Picard safely released from captivity,
the U.S.S. Enterprise leaves the outcome of the Rutian conflict to Alexana and
her advisers.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Christopher Pettiet  (Boy)
       Fred G. Smith        (Policeman)
       Kerrie Keane         (Alexana Devos)
       Marc Buckland        (Waiter - Katik Shaw)
       Richard Cox          (Kyril Finn)
       Wil Wheaton          (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Melinda M. Snodgrass

Directed By : Gabrielle Beaumont
¡Deja Q [TNG #61]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/dejaq.iff
Stardate 43539.1

While orbiting Bre'el IV to investigate a descending asteroidal moon which
could cause landquakes and tidal waves on the planet, the crew is surprised by
the unexpected arrival of Q. Although Picard immediately suspects that the
mischievous Q is responsible for the moon's deteriorating orbit, Q admits that
his superiors in the Continuum have stripped him of his magical powers and
made him human, thus unable to indulge in such chicanery.

Fearful that Q is lying, Picard assigns Data to keep an eye on Q while the
crew deals with the perilous situation on Bre'el IV. But Q's presence on board
the ship becomes problematic when the Calamarain, a gas-like life form with a
grievance against Q, begins attacking him. Picard soon realizes that Q came
aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise to receive protection from the Calamarain. But a
short time later, the life form attacks Q again and in an attempt to save him,
Data sustains serious electrical damage to his android body.

Moved by the injured Data's sacrifice for him, and aware that the crew will be
unable to move the moon as long as it must use its shields to protect him, Q
steals a shuttlecraft and heads into space, knowing that the Calamarain will
follow him. As the force approaches the shuttlecraft, Picard orders the
shields to be extended to protect Q, but they are inexplicably inoperative.

Inside the shuttlecraft, another member of the Continuum, Q2, appears beside Q
and tells him that he is impressed by his selfless act and gives Q his powers
back, but warns that he'll be keeping an eye on him.

A grateful Q suddenly appears on the bridge of the U.S.S. Enterprise with a
band and confetti to thank the crew. When Picard asks him to leave, Q obliges,
but not before thanking Data by using his newly regained powers to give the
android the experience of a human belly laugh. After Q disappears, the crew
receives a transmission from Bre'el IV announcing that the moon's orbit has
been corrected. Initially confused, the captain realizes that Q has learned a
little humanity and saved the planet himself.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Betty Muramoto   (Bre'el Scientist)
       Corbin Bernsen   (Q2)
       John de Lancie   (Q)
       Richard Cansino  (Dr. Garin)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)

Written By : Richard Danus

Directed By : Les Landau
¡A Matter Of Perspective [TNG #62]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/matterpersp.iff
Stardate 43610.4

Following a routine mission at the Tanuga IV science station, Riker beams back
to the U.S.S. Enterprise moments before Dr. Apgar, the director of the
Starfleet research facility, is killed in an explosion. A short time later,
Chief Investigator Krag of the Tanugan security force arrives to take Riker
into custody after Apgar's widow, Manua, and his assistant Tanya accuse the
first officer of threatening Apgar. Picard, however, refuses to release Riker
until reasonable evidence is offered to warrant his arrest.

Programmed with the testimonies of Riker, Manua, Tanya and the information in
Apgar's personal journal, the holodeck recreates the events leading up to the
fatal explosion, according to each person's perspective. Contrary to Riker's
claims, the accounts of the other witnesses indicate that he had tried to
seduce Manua and intimidate Apgar. Although Picard does not believe the
accounts, he admits that the corroborating testimonies provide Krag with
enough evidence for Riker's extradition.

Meanwhile, Geordi, Data and Wesley try to determine the cause of a power drain
which occurred as Riker was being transported off the station, as well as the
source of the energy blast which cause the explosion. Krag's evidence shows
that the energy source came from Riker's position as he was beaming out, which
means he could have fired his phaser at Apgar as he was departing.

In their investigation, however, the Science Team finds out that Apgar had
discovered the new source of energy which Starfleet requested, but hid that
fact so that he could develop it into a weapon that he would sell, at great
personal profit, to the highest bidder. Using a holodeck recreation, Picard
asserts that Apgar was afraid Riker would tell Starfleet that his work was
completed before the scientist could create the valuable weapon.

Geordi is then able to prove that Apgar had intended a beam from his energy
source to interfere with Riker's transport, scattering his cells through space
and killing him in what would appear to be an accident. However, the beam
merely reflected off the transport effect back into the condenser, causing the
explosion and Apgar's subsequent death. Convinced by the crew's evidence, Krag
drops all charges against Riker.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney           (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Craig Richard Nelson  (Krag)
       Gina Hecht            (Mauna Apgar)
       Juli Donald           (Tayna)
       Mark Margolis         (Dr. Nel Apgar)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Ed Zuckerman

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Yesterday's Enterprise [TNG #63]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/yesterdays.iff
Stardate 43625.2

While on a routine mission, the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers a bizarre rift in
space, which reveals an unidentified vessel. Both ships are now on an
alternate time line where the Federation is in the midst of a bloody war with
the Klingons.

The crew identifies the mysterious vessel as their ships' immediate
predecessor, the U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701-C, believed to have been destroyed
in battle over 20 years ago. Their own crew now includes Tasha Yar, the
ex-security chief who was killed in the line of duty. Meeting with the captain
of that vessel, Picard learns that it was responding to a distress signal on a
Klingon outpost when it was attacked by four Romulan Warbirds. But in the
middle of the assault, the ship broke through the space rift, thus saving it
from the destruction recorded in the history books. Although Picard and his
crew are baffled by the strange appearance of the U.S.S. Enterprise-C,
Guinan's alien instincts lead her to believe that the Federation's current war
with the Klingons is the result of the U.S.S. Enterprise-C's presence in their
future. Certain that the ship is now existing in the wrong time line, she
pleads with Picard to send the U.S.S. Enterprise-C back through the rift in
order to change the course of events, which has resulted in the loss of 40
billion lives during the Klingon conflict.

Picard confers with Data, who asserts that if the U.S.S. Enterprise-C was
destroyed while aiding the Klingon outpost, it would have been viewed as an
honorable act, which means the current war with the Klingons may have been
avoided. Faced with this knowledge, Picard decides to send the U.S.S.
Enterprise-C back through the time rift, to face its tragic destiny.

Meanwhile, Tasha learns from Guinan that, in the correct time line, she died a
meaningless death. In response, Tasha requests that she be allowed to serve on
the doomed U.S.S. Enterprise-C crew so that she may die in the heroic battle
with the Romulans. Picard reluctantly agrees.

As the U.S.S. Enterprise-C makes its way back through the time rift, three
Klingon warships launch an attack on it. To assure that the U.S.S.
Enterprise-C returns to its rightful place in time, Picard positions the
U.S.S. Enterprise-D between the vessel and the Klingons, sustaining heavy
losses in the process. Just as the U.S.S. Enterprise-D's engine core seems on
the verge of exploding, Data announces that the rift has closed, and, unaware
of the preceding events, the U.S.S. Enterprise returns to its original time
line, heading for a cultural exchange program with a Klingon delegation.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Christopher McDonald  (Lt. Richard Castillo)
       Denise Crosby         (Lt. Tasha Yar)
       Tricia O'Neil         (Capt. Rachel Garrett)
       Whoopi Goldberg       (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Hans Beimler
              Ira Steven Behr
              Richard Manning
              Ronald D. Moore

Story By : Eric A. Stillwell
           Trent Christopher Ganino

Directed By : David Carson
¡The Offspring [TNG #64]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/offspring.iff
Stardate 43657.0

Hoping to further his creator's work and perpetuate his species, Data creates
an android named Lal, who receives Data's programming through neural
transfers. Although Picard is apprehensive about Starfleet's reaction to the
unauthorized experiment, he allows Data to continue his research.

Allowed to select its own appearance, Lal chooses the form of a human female.
As she becomes increasingly capable of perception and feeling, Data enrolls
Lal in school so that she can assimilate human behavior. When the android has
difficulty fitting in with the children, Guinan agrees to let her work in Ten
Forward, where she can supervise Lal's socialization process, and where Lal
can study many different kinds of people.

Meanwhile, Starfleet Admiral Haftel learns of Data's creation and informs
Picard that he wants to transfer Lal to a research station where he can more
closely monitor her progress. When Picard refuses, citing Lal and Data's
mutual need to remain together for full developmental growth, Haftel gets
permission to come aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise to observe Lal and is
empowered to remove her from the ship if he is dissatisfied by what he sees.

Despite all evidence to the contrary, Haftel is convinced that a bar is an
unacceptable environment for Lal and orders her removed from Ten Forward. He
then meets with Lal in the hopes of convincing her to leave the Enterprise,
but she firmly states her desire to remain with her "father" Data and the
crew. Upset by her meeting with the Admiral, Lal seeks out Troi, who is
stunned to sense the emotion of fear emanating from the android.

After Haftel informs Data that Lal will be taken from the starship, Picard
states his intention to defy the admiral's orders, but their face-off is
interrupted by an emergency call from Troi. Data and Haftel rush to Lal's
side, only to find that she is dying. Troi tells them that Lal's functions
broke down after experiencing an extraordinary range of feelings in the
counselor's presence.

In a valiant effort to save Lal, Haftel joins Data in repairing the android's
malfunction, but her neural pathways shut down faster than they can fix them.
After Lal thanks Data for her life and tells him that she loves him, her
neural system fails and she expires. Unable to experience the grief and
emotion the crew feels at Lal's loss, Data must be content with Lal's memories
of life, which he transfers to his brain.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Diane Moser           (Ten Forward Crew)
       Hallie Todd           (Lal)
       Hayne Bayle           (Ten Forward Crew)
       James G. Becker       (Ten Forward Crew)
       Judyann Elder         (Lt. Ballard)
       Leonard John Crofoot  (Lal As Robot)
       Maria Leone           (Ten Forward Crew)
       Nicolas Coster        (Admiral Anthony Haftel)
       Whoopi Goldberg       (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Rene Echevarria

Directed By : Jonathan Frakes
¡Sins Of The Father [TNG #65]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/sinsfather.iff
Stardate 43685.2

As part of an exchange program, a Klingon officer named Kurn arrives on board
the U.S.S. Enterprise. He soon informs Worf that they are brothers, having
been separated shortly before their parents were killed in a Romulan attack on
the Khitomer Outpost.

Kurn tells Worf that new evidence has surfaced which indicates that their late
father, Mogh, aided and abetted the Romulans in the Khitomer assault which
resulted in the deaths of 4000 Klingons. To defend his family's honor, Worf
goes before the Klingon High Council to challenge the treasonous accusations.

Accompanied by Kurn, who serves as his brother's cha'Dlch (a second who will
defend him during the trial), Worf faces the high council. During a recess,
the council leader, K'mpec, asks Worf to drop his challenge, but he refuses.
Elsewhere, Kurn is seriously wounded by two Klingon assassins after Duras,
another council member, requests that he betray Worf and Kurn refuses.

Due to Kurn's injuries, Worf asks Picard to be his cha'Dlch. Honored by the
request, Picard returns to the council with Worf. Meanwhile, the crew learns
that Klingon records of the fatal attack have recently been altered to indict
Mogh and that the only other survivor of the massacre, Worf's nurse Kahlest,
is living nearby.

Picard visits Kahlest, who asserts that Mogh was loyal to his race and had
actually followed the real traitor to the Khitomer Outpost to prevent the
Romulan attack. But when Picard tries to introduce Kahlest's testimony, K'mpec
abruptly cuts him off and calls a recess before she can prove Mogh's
innocence.

In private chambers, K'mpec admits that Mogh was a scapegoat for the real
traitor, Duras' father, to protect political interests and prevent a civil
war. He also reveals that the council never expected Worf to challenge their
charges, but since he has, he must be punished for his father's "treason" to
keep the peace. To protect Kurn, who would face execution along with him, Worf
agrees to drop his challenge and instead be labeled a coward before the
council, though in their hearts, Kurn and Worf know that their family honor
has been maintained.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : B.J. Davis       (Assassin)
       Charles Cooper   (K'mpec)
       Chris Doyle      (Assassin)
       Patrick Massett  (Duras)
       Teddy Davis      (Transporter Technician)
       Thelma Lee       (Kahlest)
       Tony Todd        (Cmdr. Kurn)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Ronald D. Moore
              W. Reed Moran

Story By : Drew Deighan

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Allegiance [TNG #66]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/allegiance.iff
Stardate 43714.1

While in his quarters, Picard is taken from the ship by an alien energy beam
and held in a room with three other hostages: Tholl, a peace-loving Mizarian;
Haro, an Algolian and Starfleet Academy cadet; and Esoqq, a beast-like member
of the Chalnoth race.

The situation in the cell becomes increasingly tense when the prisoners
discover that their food supply is poisonous to Esoqq, who eyes his fellow
captives hungrily. Picard, Esoqq and Haro attempt to rewire the circuitry in a
wall panel to open the door to the room, but they're struck by a bolt of
energy. The frustrated quartet begins to suspect each other, believing that
one of the others may actually be their captor.

Meanwhile, on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, the false Picard arouses the
suspicions of the crew when he begins acting strangely, ordering the ship off
course, leading the crew in drinking songs and making romantic overtures to
Dr. Crusher. But when Riker finds traces of a sophisticated replicator in
Picard's chambers and learns that the captain has led the U.S.S. Enterprise
perilously close to a star emitting radiation, he overrides Picard's orders
and takes command of the ship. Despite being called mutinous by the false
Picard, the crew stands by Riker.

Back in the holding cell, the real Picard deduces that Haro is the captor
among them. When she tries to deny the accusation, Picard points out that she
exhibited knowledge of classified Starfleet information that would not be
available to a cadet.

With that, Haro suddenly metamorphosizes into three identical aliens who are
linked telepathically. The aliens explain that they were merely conducting an
experiment to study leadership qualities among different species, since their
race has no distinctions of authority. When one of the aliens accompanies
Picard back to the U.S.S. Enterprise, the false Picard metamorphosizes into
another alien.

Furious that he's been used as a guinea pig and that the lives of his crew
have been needlessly endangered, Picard captures the two aliens in a
forcefield. By this act, he is able to show how effective leadership really
works and also that kidnapping is immoral. The point made, Picard send the
aliens on their way.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Jeff Rector      (Alien #2)
       Jerry Rector     (Alien #1)
       Jocelyn O'Brien  (Cadet Mitena Haro)
       Reiner Schoen    (Esoqq)
       Stephen Markle   (Kova Tholl)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Hans Beimler
             Richard Manning

Directed By : Winrich Kolbe
¡Captain's Holiday [TNG #67]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/captsholiday.iff
Stardate 43745.2

At the crew's insistence, Picard reluctantly agrees to take a week-long
vacation to Risa, a tropical resort. However, following his arrival, the
captain's peace is disturbed by Sovak, a Ferengi who accuses Picard of
conspiring with Vash, a woman in possession of a mysterious optical disc.

Although Picard knows nothing about the disc, Vash implicates him by slipping
it into his pocket without the captain's knowledge. Returning to his room,
Picard is also confronted by two Vorgons, Boratus and Ajur, who have been
shadowing him.

The duo reveals that they're a security team from the 27th century in search
of the Tox Uthat, a powerful secret weapon. According to their history books,
the scientist who invented the Uthat traveled back in time to hide the device
from criminals who tried to steal It. What's more, Vorgon records indicate
that it's Picard's destiny to find the missing object on Risa.

Although skeptical of the Vorgons' story, Picard discovers he has Vash's disc
and confronts her. She claims the disc was given to her for safekeeping by the
archeologist who discovered the location of the Uthat, just prior to his
death. She hid the disc in Picard's pocket to prevent it from failing into
Sovak's hands, since he plans to find the Uthat and sell it to the highest
bidder.

With Sovak hot on their trail, Picard and Vash use the information on the disc
to locate the Uthat's reputed hiding place, where they begin digging for the
weapon. When It doesn't turn up, the trio surmises that the archeologist's
findings must have been flawed. But when Picard later catches Vash sneaking
out of town, he realizes that she already has the weapon, having found it long
before she led Picard and Sovak on a wild goose chase to the hiding place in
order to throw the Ferengi off track.

When Vash shows the Uthat to Picard, the Vorgons appear, demanding the weapon.
But having learned from Vash that it was the Vorgons whom the inventor had
originally hidden the Uthat from, Picard grabs the device and then signals to
Riker, who, based on prior orders, beams the device away and blows it up. The
disappointed Vorgons reveal that Picard did fulfill his destiny by destroying
the Uthat and they concede defeat... this time.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Deirdre L. Imershein  (Joval)
       Jennifer Hetrick      (Vash)
       Karen Landry          (Ajur)
       Max Grodenchik        (Sovak)
       Michael Champion      (Boratus)

Written By : Ira Steven Behr

Directed By : Chip Chalmers
¡Tin Man [TNG #68]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/tinman.iff
Stardate 43779.3

The U.S.S. Enterprise is ordered to transport Tam Elbrun, a Federation
emissary, to a distant star system. Tam, a Betazoid who specializes in first
contact with new life-forms, is assigned to establish mind contact with Tin
Man, an alien intelligence resembling an organic spaceship, which is orbiting
a star that's about to explode. The crew's mission: to reach Tin Man before
two Romulan Warbirds, which are also trying to make contact with it.

En route to the site, Tam shares with his old friend Troi his frustration with
his extraordinary telepathic powers, which constantly bombard him with the
thoughts of those around him. He also intimates that he has already made
preliminary contact with Tin Man.

Upon the crew's arrival at the star system, one of the Romulan Warbirds fires
on the U.S.S. Enterprise, then prepares to destroy Tin Man before the crew can
make contact. Instead, Tam sends a telepathic warning to Tin Man, which
responds by emitting an energy wave that destroys the Warbird, but also causes
serious damage to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

With the star's explosion imminent and the second Warbird on the way, Picard
asks Tam to coax Tin Man into moving to the safety of Federation space. Tam
explains that Tin Man, having lost its crew years earlier, has come to the
star to die in the explosion. He then asks to be transported to Tin Man to
establish personal contact, but Picard is hesitant, questioning the loyalties
that caused Tam to protect Tin Man at the risk of losing the Enterprise.

When the second Romulan vessel arrives to destroy Tin Man, Picard sends Tam
and Data to approach the life-form. Upon boarding, Tam has an immediate sense
of belonging with the alien and Tin Man shows a mutual rapport with the
emissary. Shortly afterwards, Tin Man breaks orbit and sends the U.S.S.
Enterprise and the Romulan Warbird hurtling into space and away from the star
just before It explodes. Data is then returned to the U.S.S. Enterprise, where
he explains that Tam has remained with Tin Man, having finally found on the
ship the peace that has eluded him his entire life.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Harry Groener      (Tam Elbrun)
       Michael Cavanaugh  (Capt. Robert DeSoto)
       Peter Vogt         (Romulan Cmdr.)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : David Bischoff
             Dennis Putman Bailey

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡Hollow Pursuits [TNG #69]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/hollowpursuits.iff
Stardate 43807.4

When the U.S.S. Enterprise experiences problems with an anti-gravity unit,
Geordi orders one of his engineers, Lt. Barclay, to investigate the
malfunction. But when Barclay later claims that he's unable to find a problem,
the anti-gravity field fails, causing a canister of alien tissue samples
transported from a nearby planet to fall, break open and expose its contents.

After Geordi complains to the captain about Barclay, Picard advises Geordi to
find a way to motivate him. Unfortunately, Barclay's attendance at an
officers' meeting does little to inspire confidence in him and Barclay
retreats to the Holodeck where he programs a session in which Counselor Troi
seduces him. Later, when Picard mistakenly calls Barclay "Broccoli," a
nickname used by the crew, Geordi finds him back in the Holodeck, engaged in a
fantasy sword fight in which he defeats Picard, Data and Geordi.

Geordi then encourages Barclay to meet with Troi to discuss his need to vent
his frustrations on Holodeck recreations. But before long, Barclay again
begins shirking his responsibilities, which sends Riker, Troi and Geordi to
the Holodeck to confront him about his obsession with the device.

Just then, the ship is jolted by a sudden increase in warp speed. Although
Geordi sympathizes with Barclay's self-esteem problem, he explains that he
desperately needs the lieutenant's help in engineering. Otherwise, the rapidly
accelerating starship will automatically self-destruct within minutes.

With all other theories exhausted, Barclay deduces that the ship's
malfunctions can be traced to crew members who were in contact with the
canister that broke open earlier, and that they may have inadvertently spread
some sort of contamination throughout the U.S.S. Enterprise's mechanical
systems. Geordi concurs with Barclay's hunch and is able to save the ship just
seconds before it would have self-destructed. Having gained confidence from
the crisis, Barclay returns to the Holodeck one last time to bid farewell to
his recreations.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Charley Lang     (Lt. Duffy)
       Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Dwight Schultz   (Lt. Reginald Barclay)
       Whoopi Goldberg  (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Sally Caves

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡The Most Toys [TNG #70]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/mosttoys.iff
Stardate 43872.2

The crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise leaves Data for dead when his shuttlecraft
explodes during a dangerous transport mission.

Finding no apparent signs of foul play, the Starship proceeds on its mission
to transport rare hytritium to neutralize a sudden water contamination at a
Federation colony. En route, Geordi is tormented by his inability to account
for the shuffle explosion and the subsequent death of his friend.

Meanwhile, Kivas Fajo, the trader who supplied the hytritium, holds Data
captive on his ship, adding the android to his collection of one of a kind
items. Unable to escape, Data uses passive resistance to defy Fajo until his
captor threatens to kill his own assistant, Varria, with a disrupter gun that
slowly tortures its victims.

As the U.S.S. Enterprise approaches its destination, Geordi realizes that Data
never transmitted a confirmation of departure from Fajo's ship, a breach of
protocol virtually impossible for him to commit. Suspicions continue to mount
when Worf reports that the contaminant in the outpost's water is not
indigenous to the planet, and that the only neutralizer is the rare hytritium
so conveniently supplied by Fajo. A report confirming that Fajo is a collector
of rare objects convinces Picard that Data may have been kidnapped, and the
U.S.S. Enterprise sets out in search of the trader's vessel.

Back aboard Fajo's ship, Varria attempts to seduce Data, but she is rebuked by
the android who tells her that she is being used by Fajo to test his sexual
abilities. Humiliated and angered by the truth, Varria helps Data escape,
supplying him with a destructor gun and escorting him to a shuttlecraft. As
they prepare to depart, Data and Varria are confronted by guards and a fight
ensues, leaving them both unarmed.

Fajo then enters the shuttle bay and shoots Varria with a disrupter gun,
leaving her to suffer a torturous death. Shocked by his own actions, Fajo
discards the weapon, which Data quickly snatches up. Fajo then laughingly
dares Data to shoot him, proclaiming that the android has no feelings which
could justify murder to his anti-violent programming.

Moments later, Data is unwittingly transported back aboard the Enterprise.
Much to his surprise, Riker learns that Data was firing a weapon at the moment
of transport, but Data refuses to discuss the matter. Fajo is then arrested
and the trader, who defined his value by his possessions, is stripped of his
self-worth when his collection is confiscated.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney       (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Jane Daly         (Varria)
       Nehemiah Persoff  (Palor Toff)
       Saul Rubinek      (Kivas Fajo)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Shari Goodhartz

Directed By : Timothy Bond
¡Sarek [TNG #71]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/sarek.iff
Stardate 43917.4

Sarek, the renowned Vulcan Ambassador, is on a mission to establish relations
between the Federation and a race of beings known as the Legaran. His arrival
on the starship is preceded by his human Chief of Staff, Mendrossen, and a
young Vulcan, Sakkath, the Ambassador's personal assistant. Mendrossen
explains to Captain Picard that Sarek's age has recently caused him to tire
easily, and asks him to dispense with the official ceremonies that would
normally be accorded a visitor of Sarek's rank, so that he may rest. Picard is
disappointed that Sarek will not be able to attend a concert arranged on his
behalf, but defers to Mendrossen's wishes.

Picard later extends a personal invitation to attend the concert to Sarek's
wife, Perrin, who thanks him and says that she will extend the invitation to
her husband. When Picard departs, Perrin enters Sarek's room to find the
Vulcan uncharacteristically annoyed by an apparent inability to meditate.
Later in the evening, Sarek and his entourage attend the concert, where Picard
is surprised to see the Ambassador, who is normally emotionally detached,
moved to tears by the music.

During the course of Sarek's stay, sporadic bouts of anger and violence plague
the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise. Dr. Crusher is horrified when she is driven
to strike Wesley, and seeks counsel from Troi, who expresses concern because
it is just one of many similar incidents that have been reported to her. The
situation becomes desperate when a brawl breaks out among the crew in Ten
Forward.

Troi and Dr. Crusher theorize that Sarek is suffering from Bendii syndrome, a
rare condition among Vulcans, characterized by a loss of emotional control.
Although Mendrossen denies the suggestion, Sakkath, concerned about the
success of the conference, admits that he has been attempting to
telepathically reinforce Sarek's emotional control.

When Sarek is informed of the recent events, he so vehemently denies his
affliction that it results in an outburst of anger, which proves Picard's
point. Before the captain cancels the conference, he proposes that he and
Sarek participate in a mind-meld in which they would become telepathically
linked, and virtually share one mind. When Sarek agrees, Picard suffers
through a whirlwind of the Ambassador's emotions unleashed in his mind, while
Sarek is able to use the captain's strength to successfully negotiate with the
Legaran delegates.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney      (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Joanna Miles     (Perrin)
       John H. Francis  (Science Ensign)
       Mark Lenard      (Sarek)
       Rocco Sisto      (Sakkath)
       Wil Wheaton      (Wesley Crusher)
       William Denis    (Ki Mendrossen)

Teleplay By : Peter S. Beagle

Story By : Marc Cushman
           Jake Jacobs

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Menage A Troi [TNG #72]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/menagetroi.iff
Stardate 43930.7

At the conclusion of a trade conference on Betazed, Commander Riker and Troi
take shore leave on the planet, while the U.S.S. Enterprise sets out on a
routine mission. Shortly after Troi's mother, Lwaxana, interrupts a tender
moment between her daughter and Riker, the trio is unexpectedly joined by two
Ferengi who had served as delegates at the conference. One of the Ferengi,
Daimon Tog, proclaims that he has come for Lwaxana, who had previously rebuked
his amorous advances. As the Ferengi transports out with Lwaxana and Troi,
Riker is caught in the beam and is carried away with them.

When the captives awaken aboard a Ferengi ship, Troi and Lwaxana are
transported into the lab of Farek, a Ferengi doctor who hopes to study
Lwaxana's telepathy through mind probes. Lwaxana gains Troi's return to Riker
by agreeing to discuss with Tog a proposal by which he could use her
telepathic abilities in trade negotiations.

Meanwhile, Riker entices the Ferengi guard into a chess match, and once
outside the cell quickly disarms him. As Lwaxana seduces Tog by rubbing his
large and erogenous ears, she receives a telepathic message from Troi and
Riker saying that they need an access code to operate the communications
system so they can summon help. Lwaxana has nearly extracted the code from Tog
when Farek enters, threatening to reveal the incident unless Lwaxana is turned
over to him for experimentation.

A message that Riker and Troi are missing summons the U.S.S. Enterprise back
to Betazed, where an Away Team discovers flowers indigenous to Ferengi at the
spot where they were last seen. Picard orders a scan of all radio
transmissions in hopes that Riker has sent a message, but the Ferengi
frequency is interrupted by interference. In the midst of the search, Wesley
prepares to depart for the Academy to take his Starfleet oral exams. Suddenly
realizing that the interference itself may be a signal, he rushes back to the
Bridge, causing him to miss his transport ship. The decoded interference
reveals the heading of the Ferengi ship, and the U.S.S. Enterprise begins
pursuit.

When Troi is overcome with pain, sensing mind probes being used on her mother,
an armed Riker enters Farek's lab to free Lwaxana, but a standoff ensues when
Tog enters with a phaser. As the Enterprise arrives, Lwaxana buys the release
of Troi and Riker by agreeing to aid Tog with her telepathy, and they are
returned to the ship. Picard is then forced to play the role of a jealous
lover, in order to frighten Tog into returning Lwaxana. For his selfless
efforts, Wesley is promoted to full Ensign and is told that he will be allowed
to complete his Starfleet courses aboard the Enterprise.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Carel Struycken   (Mr. Homn)
       Ethan Phillips    (Dr. Farek)
       Frank Corsentino  (Daimon Tog)
       Majel Barrett     (Lwaxana Troi)
       Peter Slutsker    (Nibor)
       Rudolph Willrich  (Reittan Grax)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Fred Bronson
             Susan Sackett

Directed By : Robert Legato
¡Transfigurations [TNG #73]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/transfigura.iff
Stardate 43957.2

When the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers a severely injured humanoid in the
wreckage of an escape pod, Geordi volunteers to have his nervous system hooked
up to the stranger's, in order to stabilize him. During the process, a wave of
visible energy is transmitted from the humanoid to Geordi.

Dr. Crusher holds little hope for the recovery of the patient she has dubbed
"John Doe," but he soon begins to exhibit amazing recuperative powers. While
his damaged tissue is repairing itself at a remarkable rate, "John's"
undamaged cells are mutating in a manner incomprehensible to the doctor.

Evidence surrounding the pod's wreckage indicates that it was involved in a
battle, but when "John" awakens, he is unable to remember anything from his
past. When Picard tells him that they have nearly determined the coordinates
of his origin and that he will soon be returned to his planet, "John"
experiences a sense of fear and tells Picard that he thinks he was trying to
escape his planet, but cannot remember why.

Meanwhile, "John's" presence seems to bring a sense of serenity to the crew
members he is in contact with, particularly Geordi. "John" then exhibits
remarkable powers when he heals O'Brien's dislocated shoulder with a touch of
his hand, which emits the same wave of visible energy that entered Geordi.

"John," however, is soon plagued by intermittent bouts of severe pain which
frighten him into trying to steal a shuttlecraft. When Worf tries to stop him,
"John" suddenly convulses in pain and then pulses into a large flare, knocking
Worf off a catwalk to the deck below. Dr. Crusher's examination of Worf shows
a broken neck and no vital signs, but when "John" touches him, a glow of light
again emanates from his hand and Worf is completely healed.

When Dr. Crusher reports that "John's" rate of cell mutation is increasing, he
fears that he will be dangerous to the crew and asks Picard to let him leave.
However, their conversation is interrupted by the approach of an unidentified
vessel which begins scanning the U.S.S. Enterprise. The commander of the ship,
Sunad of Zalkon, demands the return of "John," declaring that he is an escaped
prisoner sentenced to death for acts of agitation.

Having no memory of the past, "John" can neither confirm nor deny the
accusation, but offers to surrender in order to prevent endangering the U.S.S.
Enterprise. When Picard refuses to turn "John" over, the entire crew of the
U.S.S. Enterprise is suddenly struck with paralysis. Realization of his past
slowly dawns on "John" and he calmly departs for the Bridge where, by touching
a console, his energy spreads to cover the entire starship and heals the crew.

With a wave of his hand, "John" brings Sunad onto the Bridge and explains to
Picard that his species is on the verge of an evolutionary change and that the
rulers, fearing a loss of power, began to destroy the first members to go
through the metamorphosis. Sunad is then returned to his ship and "John,"
having evolved into a form of energy, prepares to return to his people to
spread the word of the coming rebirth.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Charles Dennis  (Cmdr. Sunad)
       Colm Meaney     (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Julie Warner    (Christi Henshaw)
       Mark LaMura     (John Doe)
       Patti Tippo     (Nurse Temple)
       Wil Wheaton     (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Rene Echevarria

Directed By : Tom Benko
¡The Best Of Both Worlds, Part 1 [TNG #74]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/bestboth1.iff
Stardate 43989.1

Suspecting that the powerful Borg are responsible for the disappearance of an
entire federation colony, Starfleet sends Lt. Commander Shelby, an ambitious
young woman who specializes in Borg matters, to assist the U.S.S. Enterprise
crew in their investigation. It is quickly apparent that she is interested in
more than just the Borg; Riker has been offered command of his own starship
and Shelby would like to replace him on the U.S.S. Enterprise. When Admiral
Hanson, an ardent admirer of Shelby's, learns that Riker is planning to turn
down the promotion, he suggests that Captain Picard encourage Riker to accept
the position.

Meanwhile, the U.S.S. Enterprise is sent to investigate the disappearance of
another starship after an encounter with the Borg. En route, the Borg
intercept the U.S.S. Enterprise and threaten to destroy it unless Picard
transports over to their ship. When Picard refuses, the U.S.S. Enterprise
narrowly escapes the Borg's grasp and finds seclusion in a solar nebula where
sensors cannot find it.

The encounter exposes a Borg weakness, which Shelby believes will allow them
to destroy the ship with a burst of concentrated energy. As they plan their
next move, tensions between Riker and Shelby mount when she goes above his
head to Picard with a suggestion. In the heated discussion that ensues, Shelby
tells Riker that he is too cautious and that he has lost his edge.

When the Borg ship begins a new offensive, the U.S.S. Enterprise is forced to
leave the nebula before its retaliation system is prepared. Again in the grasp
of the Borg ship, the U.S.S. Enterprise is invaded by three Borg who take
Picard captive and return with him to their ship. The U.S.S. Enterprise then
begins a high-speed pursuit of the Borg ship, as it heads for Earth.

Picard is informed by the Borg that they intend to add human biological and
technical traits to theirs as part of a plan to conquer the human race, and
that he has been chosen to speak for them in all communications with Earth.
Back on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, Geordi informs Riker that the Borg ship
must be slowed to impulse power so that the starship can divert its own power
toward a shot at the kidnappers.

After initially assigning himself to lead an Away Team to the ship, Riker must
grudgingly defer to Shelby when Troi reminds him that he is now in command of
a ship at war. Shortly after locating Picard's belongings on the Borg ship,
the Away Team begins tinkering with the ship's circuitry, causing the Borg to
leave their compartments and putting the team in extreme jeopardy.

When their efforts to reach the captain prove futile, the Away Team is forced
to leave Picard behind and return to the U.S.S. Enterprise. Shelby informs
Riker of the situation and offers to return for the captain, but Geordi
insists that they must take their shot at the ship immediately.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Elizabeth Dennehy  (Lt. Cmdr. Shelby)
       George Murdock     (Admiral J.P. Hanson)
       Whoopi Goldberg    (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Michael Piller

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡The Best Of Both Worlds, Part 2 [TNG #75]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/bestboth2.iff
Stardate 44001.4

At the close of last season, Captain Picard had been captured. As the new
season begins, his captors have mutilated him into a half-Borg, half-human
called Locutus, and have been manipulating him to gain insight into human
behavior to aid their plan to conquer Earth and enslave humanity. They have
also accessed Picard's extensive knowledge of the U.S.S. Enterprise, its crew,
and their strategy to defend Earth.

In Picard's absence, Fleet Admiral Hanson promotes First Officer Riker to
captain. Riker finds the adjustment painful and difficult, but eventually
takes the captain's chair and names Lieutenant Commander Shelby as his First
Officer despite their initially hostile relationship. The new captain then
commands his ship toward a rendezvous with Starfleet. En route, the crew is
horrified by the discovery of a literal graveyard of Starfleet ships, left
behind as a grim sign of the Borg's path of destruction toward Earth.

Learning of their intentions to assimilate the culture and technology of the
U.S.S. Enterprise through Picard/Locutus, Riker realizes he can use his former
captain to foil the Borg. He searches for a way to use Picard/Locutus to
access Borg information in the same way the Borg tapped the captain for U.S.S.
Enterprise secrets.

As the Borg ship races toward Earth, Data attempts to use Picard/Locutus as a
communications link to the enemy. With time running out, Riker must make an
agonizing choice between Data's desperate attempt to end the Borg advance, or
sending the U.S.S. Enterprise on a collision course with the enemy ship to
stop them from reaching Earth.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney        (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Elizabeth Dennehy  (Lt. Cmdr. Shelby)
       George Murdock     (Admiral J.P. Hanson)
       Todd Merrill       (Lt. Gleason)
       Whoopi Goldberg    (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton        (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Michael Piller

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Suddenly Human [TNG #76]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/sudhuman.iff
Stardate 44143.7

Responding to a distress call from a stricken Talarian vessel, an Away Team
from the U.S.S. Enterprise discovers that the ship is manned by five teenagers
- one of whom is human. While treating them, Dr. Crusher finds that the young
human shows signs of severe abuse. The boy, called Jono, will not communicate
with anyone among the crew, and responds to Picard only upon learning that he
is a captain. The boy requests that Picard return him to Endar, the Talarian
father who raised him. Fearing for the boy's safety, Picard refuses.

Starfleet reveals that Jono is actually Jeremiah Rossa, an orphaned human
member of a Federation outpost presumed dead in a battle ten years before. His
human grandmother, a Starfleet admiral, is anxious for his return, but Troi
fears readjusting to the human lifestyle could be traumatic for him. When
Picard asks Troi to work with the boy, she reminds him that since Talarians
respond only to male authority, he must be the one to help Jono.

At that moment, Endar reaches the U.S.S. Enterprise and demands the return of
Jono. Picard accuses the alien of abusing the boy. Endar denies the charge,
telling Picard that he rescued the boy and raised him as his own following the
battle in which Jono's human parents were killed. Picard allows Endar to see
Jono, but refuses to surrender him to the alien. Endar then threatens war and
announces that additional Talarian ships are en route.

When Data reveals that Jono is at the age of "decision," a Talarian right of
passage at which he becomes a man and is free to make his own choices, Picard
decides to let Jono choose his own fate. The boy is shown pictures of his
parents and a message from his grandmother. The memories they bring forth
disturb Jono, but he clams down and exhibits some very human characteristics
while sharing a banana split with Wesley at the Ten Forward.

Later that night, Jono sneaks into the sleeping Picard's room and stabs the
Captain in the chest. Shocked by the boy's actions, Picard summons him to his
sickbed for an explanation. Jono grudgingly reveals that he hoped his action
would condemn him to death, thus preventing him from having to make the
agonizing choice between his human family and the father who raised him.

On the bridge, Riker refuses to give Endar the boy, claiming that he is being
held in custody as a result of his attack on Picard. As Endar prepares to fire
on the U.S.S. Enterprise, Picard enters the Bridge, accompanied by Jono. He
announces that he is returning the boy to the only home he has ever known -
with Endar.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Barbara Townsend  (Admiral Connaught Rossa)
       Chad Allen        (Jono)
       Sherman Howard    (Capt. Endar)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Jeri Taylor
              John Whelpley

Story By : Ralph Phillips

Directed By : Gabrielle Beaumont
¡Brothers [TNG #77]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/brothers.iff
Stardate 44085.7

When Data's creator summons him home to be fitted with a computer chip that
will give him emotion, their reunion is disrupted by the unexpected arrival of
Data's evil brother, Lore.

Aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise, a young boy's practical joke backfires and
leaves his brother dangerously ill. Because the boy needs special treatment to
survive, the ship rushes towards a nearby starbase. En route, Data begins to
inexplicably malfunction, slipping into a trance-like state and altering the
ship's course. He then severs the life support system on the Bridge, forcing
the evacuation of the command crew, and leaving himself alone on the Bridge.
He thwarts the crew's numerous efforts to regain control of the ship by
speaking to the computer in Picard's voice and taking control of the U.S.S.
Enterprise. The starship continues to follow his mysterious course, while the
sick little boy's situation grows more desperate.

The out-of-control android maneuvers the ship toward his destination, evades
three security teams by blocking them with force fields, and escapes. He
arrives on a planet, and is greeted by Dr. Noonien Soong, the ancient doctor
who created him. A confused Data asks Soong how he arrived on the doctor's
planet. Soong explains that Data was summoned through a homing device, and
ignores Data's anxious request to contact the U.S.S. Enterprise. Suddenly, a
figure enters the room. It is Data's sinister brother, Lore, whom Data had
defeated during a fight aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise two years earlier.

When Soong deactivates Lore to examine him, Data requests that his evil
brother not be restored to life. Soong reassembles the android anyway, and
explains that the homing device that summoned Data had the same effect on
Lore. In an explosive outburst, Lore rails at Soong for creating Data instead
of working to improve him. An apologetic Soong explains that if he had known
Lore was still functional, he would have worked to correct the programming
that caused him to be evil. However, his recent efforts have been to create a
chip that will allow Data to feel emotion. Soong then explains that he is
dying, and that this will be his final project. Lore is upset by the news and
offers to help, but Soong says he only needs to rest before he begins working
on Data.

Upon completing the implant, Soong learns that he has inserted the chip in
Lore, who deactivated his brother while the scientist was asleep. When Soong
tries to convince Lore to surrender the chip, he attacks his creator, flinging
him across the room, then escaping. Meanwhile, the Enterprise crew has found a
way to follow Data, and an Away Team soon reaches Soong's planet to rescue the
errant android. The scientist refuses their offer to leave with them, and Data
says goodbye to his creator. The starship resumes its course for Starbase 416,
where the sick boy is treated and saved. The boy then reconciles with his
brother, leaving Data to ponder the special bond between siblings.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Adam Ryen      (Willie Potts)
       Brent Spiner   (Dr. Noonien Soong / Lore)
       Colm Meaney    (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Cory Danziger  (Jake Potts)
       James Lashly   (Ensign Kopf)
       Wil Wheaton    (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Rick Berman

Directed By : Rob Bowman
¡Family [TNG #78]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/family.iff
Stardate 44012.3

After taking the U.S.S. Enterprise to an Earth orbiting spacedock for repairs,
Picard, still recovering from the injuries he suffered at the hands of the
Borg, returns for the first time in twenty years to the 19th century French
village where he grew up. He is greeted warmly by his sister-in-law and
nephew, both of whom he has never met. However, his meeting with his older
brother Robert, who feels that Picard is arrogant, is filled with animosity.

Back on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, Worf receives an unexpected visit from
his adoptive human parents, Sergey and Helena Rozhenko. Because he is a
Klingon, Worf is uncomfortable with their displays of emotion. His coldness
upsets Worf's mother. But her feelings of hurt and helplessness are alleviated
after a conversation with Guinan, who assures the Rozhenkos that when their
son looks toward home, he is looking toward Earth. Comforted by her words, the
couple assures Worf that while they may not understand everything about his
association with the Klingons, they will always stand by him and love him.

Meanwhile, Dr. Crusher receives a package she left in storage when she left
Earth. While sorting through the odds and ends, she discovers a computer disc
containing a holographic message for Wesley from his late father, made when he
was only 10 weeks old. She is uncertain about giving the disc to Wesley, but
Troi convinces her it may help the boy understand the kind of man his father
was. Initially shocked that his father was just a young man like himself,
Wesley ends up deeply moved by his expression of hope for the future and love
for his baby son.

Back in his village, Picard receives an offer from an old friend to head a
project on Earth, and is shocked to find himself seriously considering the
job. While Picard anguishes over the decision, his brother seizes the
opportunity to torment him, telling him he has changed from the unflappable
achiever he once was. The argument leads to a brawl that eventually leaves the
sibling rivals laughing and covered in mud. They share a tender moment as
Picard reveals the guilt he feels over his inability to fight the Borg after
they kidnapped him.

As the U.S.S. Enterprise prepares to depart, it is apparent that more than
just the starship was repaired. Worf shares a final tender moment with his
parents, Wesley says goodbye to a father he finally feels he knows, and
Picard, reconciled with his brother, begins his psychological recovery from
his trauma with the Borg.

Crew : Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Colm Meaney           (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       David Tristin Birkin  (Rene Picard)
       Dennis Creaghan       (Louis)
       Doug Wert             (Jack R. Crusher)
       Georgia Brown         (Helena Rozhenko)
       Jeremy Kemp           (Robert Picard)
       Samantha Eggar        (Marie Picard)
       Theodore Bikel        (Sergey Rozhenko)
       Whoopi Goldberg       (Guinan)
       Wil Wheaton           (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Ronald D. Moore

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Remember Me [TNG #79]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/rememberme.iff
Stardate 44161.2

After escorting her friend Dr. Dalen Quaice aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise,
Beverly is deeply moved by his sadness over losing his wife and other people
he has loved. She seeks out her son Wesley, and finds him in engineering,
working with a warp bubble on a computer screen. While she watches, his
experiment inadvertently causes a strange flash of light. Soon afterward, Dr.
Crusher is unable to locate Dr. Quaice. The ship's computer reports that he
has never been on board, and Picard and Worf inform her that they had no
knowledge of his presence on the ship. Additionally, O'Brien does not recall
transporting Quaice aboard, and Starfleet has no record of the doctor's
existence.

Beverly's bewilderment turns to concern when members of the crew, including
her entire medical staff, begin to disappear. Neither their relatives, other
crew members, or the ship's computer remember their ever having existed.
Picard, Riker, and the crew are supportive and helpful, but since none of them
remember the missing people, or feel like anything is wrong, Beverly wonders
if she is suffering from delusions. She heads to Troi's office for analysis,
and is confronted by a strange, swirling vortex which knocks her to the
ground.

The crew discounts the possibility that Wesley's experiment caused the vortex.
Beverly then asks if all crew members are accounted for. Data replies that no
crew members are missing, and tells her there are 114 people aboard the
starship.

Beverly panics, knowing the U.S.S. Enterprise population should be well over
1000. She requests that Worf monitor all remaining personnel, and is met with
silence. No one has ever heard of Worf. She rushes to Wesley to try to link
her predicament to his experiment, but Wesley soon disappears too. Beverly
returns to the Bridge to find everyone but Picard vanished. Then the captain
disappears, and the vortex reappears on the Bridge. While she struggles with
it, Wesley works on the computer, despondent that he has lost his mother. At
that moment, an alien called the Traveler phases in.

The Traveler explains that Wesley somehow summoned him, and tells the boy that
at the moment the light flashed during his experiment with warp fields,
Beverly was caught in a warp bubble and created her own reality based on what
she was thinking at that precise moment - the tragedy of losing close
friends. He begins working with the boy to try to recreate the bubble and
bring his mother back. Meanwhile, Beverly uses the computer to determine that
she is trapped in the bubble, and that it, along with her self-created
universe, is collapsing. While the crew tries to maneuver the ship back to the
exact spot where Wesley's bubble was created, Beverly runs to engineering,
where she first saw the flash of light, as the ship begins to collapse around
her. She locates the vortex with only seconds to spare, leaps through it, and
suddenly appears back in the engineering room, surrounded by the crew and her
very relieved son.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Bill Erwin     (Dr. Dalen Quaice)
       Colm Meaney    (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Eric Menyuk    (The Traveller)
       Majel Barrett  (Computer Voice)
       Wil Wheaton    (Wesley Crusher)

Written By : Lee Sheldon

Directed By : Cliff Bole
¡Legacy [TNG #80]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/legacy.iff
Stardate 44215.2

The crew responds to a distress call from a stricken Federation freighter that
is orbiting the planet Turkana IV, birthplace of their late comrade, Tasha
Yar. The freighter explodes, but Data detects an escape pod heading toward the
planet. Picard dispatches an Away Team to rescue the crashed crew members.
Upon reaching the planet's surface, Riker and his team meet Hayne, leader of
the Coalition - one of the planet's two warring factions. When Data reveals
that a former crewmember was born on Turkana IV, Hayne offers to aid in the
search with the help of one of his comrades, Ishara Yar - Tasha's sister.

Although Picard doesn't completely trust Hayne, he accepts his offer of help,
and Ishara is transported aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise. A conference to
discuss their options for a rescue is interrupted by a transmission from one
of the missing crew members. They are being held hostage by the Alliance, the
faction opposing the Coalition, and their lives are in danger. Ishara tells
Riker and the crew where the escape pod is being held and volunteers to help.
She reveals that as part of a peacekeeping agreement, the members of the
Alliance and the Coalition have been implanted with detectors which set off
alarms when they cross into their opposing factions' territory. Riker allows
Ishara to transport into Alliance territory and act as a diversion. During the
mission, she is wounded by the Alliance and is saved by Riker and transported
back to the U.S.S. Enterprise.

While she recovers, lshara and Data grow closer. Meanwhile, Geordi determines
that the crewmen from the pod are located near Alliance headquarters. lshara
tells the crew that she knows the area and could guide them, but her detector
implant would alert the Alliance of her presence - and removal of the implant
would trigger a micro explosive in the device. Data suggests a way that Dr.
Crusher could safely remove the implant and lshara, after considering her
options, agrees to the operation. She tells Data that she might like to leave
the Coalition and apply to Starfleet Academy after the mission. Picard and
Troi question Ishara's motives, but Data urges them to give her a chance.

After the operation, Ishara and the Away Team transport into Alliance
territory. After leading the team to the missing crewmen, lshara sneaks away.
Noticing that she is missing, Riker and Data set out to find her. Data locates
lshara as she attempts to overload the Alliance's defensive systems. She
admits that her help on the rescue mission has been a covert attempt to defeat
the Alliance. When Data tries to stop her, she fires her phaser at him, barely
missing him. Riker diverts Ishara's attention, enabling Data to fire at her.
Data then rearms the Alliance defensive systems. Later, Picard returns Ishara
to the Coalition, and Riker explains to a disturbed Data that in every trust
lies the possibility of betrayal.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Beth Toussaint       (Ishara Yar)
       Christopher Michael  (Coalition Lt.)
       Colm Meaney          (Chief Miles O'Brien)
       Don Mirault          (Hayne)
       Vladimir Velasco     (Tan Tsu)

Written By : Joe Menosky

Directed By : Robert Scheerer
¡Reunion [TNG #81]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/reunion.iff
Stardate 44246.3

K'Ehleyr, a half-human, half-Klingon ambassador, requests permission to come
aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise to speak with Picard. Worf is noticeably agitated
when the woman, his former mate, materializes accompanied by a young Klingon
boy. K'Ehleyr tells Worf that the boy, Alexander, is their son. The Ambassador
then informs Picard that she has come because K'Mpec, the dying Klingon
leader, wishes to speak with him. Picard boards the Klingon ship, and K'Mpec
requests his help in arbitrating the power struggle between his two potential
successors. One of the contestants has been secretly poisoning him, and Picard
must determine who is the murderer and prevent him from assuming K'Mpec's
post. K'Mpec tells Picard that one of the contestants is Duras, whose deceit
caused Worf's discommendation from the Klingon High Council.

Meanwhile, K'Mpec has died, and the rivals for the leadership of the High
Council, Duras and Gowron, join Picard at his wake. There, Duras urges Picard
to complete the rite of succession when suddenly, an explosion rocks the room.

Back on the U.S.S. Enterprise, Worf and K'Ehleyr share a tender moment, and
Worf agrees to befriend Alexander. Meanwhile, Picard stalls for time by
subjecting Duras and Gowron to an ancient ritual where they must prove their
worthiness. Gowron later offers K'Ehleyr a bribe to influence Picard's
decision, but she refuses.

The discovery that the bomb in the explosion was of Romulan origin leads the
crew to suspect that one of the Klingon rivals plans to form an alliance with
this Federation enemy. K'Ehleyr suspects Gowron because of the attempted
bribe, but her suspicions turn to Duras when she finds evidence that proves
Duras was involved in the conspiracy that led to Worf's discommendation, and
that he somehow forced Worf to take the blame.

Dr. Crusher discovers that the bomb was implanted in the arm of one of Duras'
men, while Duras attacks K'Ehleyr in her quarters. Worf rushes in, and
K'Ehleyr gives him Duras' name before dying in his arms. An outraged Worf
transports to Duras' ship. He attacks Duras, who reminds Worf that he is the
only one who can clear his name. Worf kills him anyway, accepting his fate for
the sake of vengeance. Returning to the starship, Worf informs Alexander that
he will be cared for by Worf's adoptive human parents, and answering the boy's
query, embraces him as his son.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : April Grace       (Transporter Technician Hubbell)
       Basil Wallace     (Klingon Guard #1)
       Charles Cooper    (K'mpec)
       Jon Steuer        (Alexander Rozhenko)
       Michael Rider     (Security Guard)
       Mirron E. Willis  (Klingon Guard #2)
       Patrick Massett   (Duras)
       Robert O'Reilly   (Gowron)
       Suzie Plakson     (K'Ehleyr)
       Wil Wheaton       (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Brannon Braga
              Jo Perry
              Ronald D. Moore
              Thomas Perry

Story By : Drew Deighan
           Jo Perry
           Thomas Perry

Directed By : Jonathan Frakes
¡Future Imperfect [TNG #82]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/futureimper.iff
Stardate 44286.5

When Data receives strange energy readings from Alfa Onias III, an uninhabited
planet near the Neutral Zone, Picard suspects the Romulans and sends an Away
Team led by Riker to investigate. On Alfa Onias III, communications with the
U.S.S. Enterprise break down and the mission is aborted. Later, Riker awakens
in sickbay to a graying Dr. Crusher, who tells him that he is recovering from
a retroactive virus he contracted during the mission sixteen years ago - a
virus that only recently became active and destroyed all of his memory from
the moment he was infected. Riker learns that he has been Captain of the
U.S.S. Enterprise for nine years and has a son, by a wife who has been dead
for two years. But his most shocking discovery is that he is about to lead
negotiations for a peace treaty between the Federation and their long-time
adversaries, the Romulans.

Riker becomes suspicious when he learns that the U.S.S. Enterprise is
escorting Romulan Ambassador Tomalak, whom Riker remembers as a Romulan
captain and Federation enemy, to Outpost 23, the heart of Federation Defenses
in the Neutral Zone. His suspicions are compounded when the ship's computer
experiences an unusual time lag in responding to his questions about his
missing years. While perusing his family records in search of clues to his
past, he realizes the entire story about the virus is a charade when he
discovers that the image of his late wife is actually a woman he once created
using the equipment in the Holodeck.

Riker finds Tomalak on the Bridge and reveals his discovery of the charade,
and at that moment the image of the bridge disappears, revealing a Romulan
Holodeck. Tomalak explains that Riker was captured during the Away Team
mission and that they created the images of the ship and crew by perusing his
mind with neural scanners. Riker is them placed in a cell with a boy who
appeared as his son in the charade. The boy, Ethan, explains that he was
captured with his parents, who have been taken away.

When Tomalak returns to the cell and demands to be told the location of
Outpost 23, Riker escapes with the help of Ethan. While they are in hiding,
Ethan accidentally refers to Tomalak as an ambassador, when in reality he is a
commander and was only an ambassador in the aborted Romulan charade. Riker
catches the boy and calls his bluff, realizing that the boy is not an innocent
hostage. At that moment, the scene around him fades to reveal the cavern on
Alfa Onias III where the original Away Team mission was aborted.

Ethan discloses that when his people were invaded, his mother brought him to
the planet for safety, leaving him with a scanner to protect him and give him
everything he wanted. He lured the U.S.S. Enterprise to Alfa Onias III and
kept Riker to have a companion. Riker then invites the boy to return with him
to the U.S.S. Enterprise. The boy reveals his true form, as an alien named
Barash, and the two transport hand-in-and back to the starship.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Andreas Katsulas      (Ambassador Tomalak)
       April Grace           (Chief Hubbell)
       Carolyn McCormick     (Minuet)
       Chris Demetral        (Barash)
       George O'Hanlon, Jr.  (Transporter Chief)
       Patti Yasutake        (Nurse Alyssa Ogawa)
       Todd Merrill          (Ensign Gleason)

Written By : David Bennett Carren
             J. Larry Carroll

Directed By : Les Landau
¡Final Mission [TNG #83]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/finalmission.iff
Stardate 44307.3

Picard summons Wesley Crusher to the Bridge, where he informs the youngster
that he has been accepted to Starfleet Academy. He further honors Wesley by
asking him to accompany him on a final mission to help mediate a dispute on
Pentarus V. When the U.S.S. Enterprise is called to investigate another nearby
crisis, Picard and Wesley proceed alone, traveling with a representative of
the planet, Dirgo, in his dilapidated shuttle. En route, the shuttle fails,
forcing an emergency landing on a desert-like moon. Upon learning Dirgo is not
traveling with water, Picard positions a makeshift arrow in the sand to
indicate their direction and heads toward a mountain range for shelter.

Back on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, the crew learns that the shuttle is
missing, but cannot aid in the search because they are involved in an
emergency mission of their own, removing an ancient waste vessel that is
leaking radiation from the atmosphere of a nearby planet. Meanwhile, Picard,
Wesley and Dirgo reach the mountains, where Wesley locates a water fountain
inside a cavern. Upon discovering a force field that stands between them and
the water, and impatient Dirgo begins firing at the force field, summoning an
electrical sentry that begins moving toward them. Dirgo fires at the sentry,
triggering a rock slide. As the boulders hurl toward Wesley, Picard pushes him
out of the way, and is severely injured in the process.

While Picard's condition worsens, Dirgo bullies Wesley into trying to distract
the sentry by setting his weapon to fire automatically, allowing Dirgo to
shoot through the force field to try to reach the water. The plan seems to
work, until the sentry splits itself in two, enveloping Wesley's weapon and
killing Dirgo.

Riker and the crew aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise conclude their mission and
join the search for the shuttle. But as the cold night falls on the desert
moon where he and Wesley are trapped, Picard grows weaker. Wesley tries to
keep his captain alive by expressing his affection for the dying man.

As Picard struggles to hold on, Wesley devises a plan to foil the sentry. He
shoots his phaser to lure the electronic guard, then tries to disengage it
with a tricorder. Eventually, the sentry passes right through him, releasing
the force field and giving Wesley access to the water, which he rushes to
Picard. Soon afterward, an Away Team from the U.S.S. Enterprise rescues them,
and Picard credits Wesley for saving his life.

Crew : Brent Spiner     (Lt. Cmdr. Data)
       Gates McFadden   (Dr. Beverly Crusher)
       Jonathan Frakes  (Cmdr. William Riker)
       LeVar Burton     (Lt. Cmdr. Geordi La Forge)
       Marina Sirtis    (Counsellor Deanna Troi)
       Michael Dorn     (Lt. Worf)
       Patrick Stewart  (Capt. Jean-Luc Picard)

Cast : Kim Hamilton  (Chairman Songi)
       Mary Kohnert  (Ensign Tess Allenby)
       Nick Tate     (Dirgo)
       Wil Wheaton   (Wesley Crusher)

Teleplay By : Kacey Arnold-Ince
              Jeri Taylor

Story By : Kacey Arnold-Ince

Directed By : Corey Allen
¡The Loss [TNG #84]
1990044*o*Data/STNG/loss.iff
Stardate 44356.9

When starship sensors detect a strange pattern of images in the U.S.S.
Enterprise's path, the crew stops to investigate. Unable to pinpoint the
source, they attempt to resume their course, to the shocking realization that
they are being pulled by an unknown force - a force they are unable to break
away from. Worried, Picard calls an emergency staff meeting and asks Troi if
she senses a life form. The counselor suddenly realizes that she is unable to
sense anything from the force or from anyone else in the room. Her empathetic
powers have failed.

After examining Troi, Beverly tries to prepare her for the fact that her
powers may be lost for good. Troi grows impatient, telling her she only wants
to get back to work. Later, Deanna begins to panic when she attempts to
counsel a patient without her empathetic abilities. When Beverly is unable to
offer any immediate hope, Troi lashes out at her. Meanwhile, Data and Geordi
discover that the force that is pulling the U.S.S. Enterprise is a cluster of
two-dimensional lifeforms.

Unconfident in her ability to perform her job without her powers, Troi
resigns, much to Riker and Picard's dismay. Later, Guinan spots her in the Ten
Forward, and tells Troi how her experiences as a bartender maker her the ideal
candidate to take over the counselor's job. Deanna immediately sees that
Guinan is joking, and suddenly realizes that while she may be without her
Betazoid powers, her human instincts are still intact. Back on the Bridge,
Data and Riker discover that the creatures are heading towar