Amiga Arena Interview

*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

    Hi, I'm Andrew Crowe of MantaSoft.  I have made many Amiga PD games and a small number of
utilities. Currently my most famous creation is 'James Bond: You Only Live Twice', which
was described in AF as 'the best game of the month' :)

    I've now started to write commercial games, my first one to be released was Pictris, and I
now have two other in the works: Blast Squad, a really good version of the classic Super Bomberman
and Solar Conquest, a space stratagy game like Civilisation, and with internet play support.

*Since did you Start to Work with the Amiga?

    Must be since about '96

*Which Amiga Modell have you got?

    A1200 with 040/25 and PPC 240.

*Which Amiga OS Version is used by you?

    3.1

+Which Software Develope you?

    I have made various freeware games including Wizards of Odd and James Bond.
    I have also made a few utilities such as AsciiStudio and Serial Paint

+Would you continue Develope for your Software?

    I am :)

*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?

    Well, I got a little feedback from my games. A didn't really get any registrations
at all from my shareware stuff, but I don't mind ;)

    Now I have started commercial development, I should make a little more :)

*Would you Develope your Software for the AmigaOne?

    I dont know how to yet

*Would you change to the New Amiga?

    Probably

+When have you used your Amiga at last?

    Um, to answer this questionnare?  :)

*Which was your last Soft/Hardware Product you buy?

    A replacement CD-Rom drive

*Which Software used you on you Amiga?

    Mainly internet software. I also play a few old games, and do development

*Which Soft/Hardware would you buy in the Future?

    Maybe an SCSI harddrive, maybe then that new PCI bus and a gfx card

*Do you belive on the Amiga comeback?

    Hopefully, especially as it is a replacement opperating system now, so existing
PC users can use their decent hardware with a decent OS :)

Thank you for your Answer!


(c) Amiga Arena 2000
