u f AM-CommodoreFolds     04-29 0340
^AM-Commodore Folds,0332<
^Commodore Scuttles Ship<
 WEST CHESTER, Pa. (AP) _ Commodore International Ltd., a pioneer
in the personal computer industry, said late Friday it is going out
 of business.
The company plans to transfer its assets to unidentified
trustees ``for the benefit of its creditors'' and has placed its
major subsidiary, Commodore Electronics Ltd., into voluntary
liquidation.
``This is the initial phase of an orderly voluntary liquidation
of both companies,'' Commodore said in a brief statement.
Company executives could not immediately be reached Friday
evening.
The company last month reported an $8.2 million loss for the
quarter ending Dec. 31 on sales of $70.1 million. A year earlier,
Commodore lost $77.2 million on sales of $237.7 million in the same
period.
In the latest report, Commodore said financial limits had
thwarted its ability to supply products, leading to weakened sales.
One of its new products, the Amiga CD32 video game, had sold poorly
in Europe, where the company did most of its business.
The company's net worth turned negative in the fiscal year ended
last June 30.
Its stock, which had traded at around $3 per share before the
quarterly results were announced last month, closed unchanged at
 87{ cents per share on the New York Stock Exchange Friday.
Commodore started 40 years ago as a typewriter repair company in
the Bronx. Its extension to the adding machine business paved the
way for it to make calculators and then personal computers by the
mid-1970s.
Commodore competed with Radio Shack for the first computers sold
to homes and co-founder Jack Tramiel became a highly-regarded
figure in the fledgling PC industry.
By the early 1980s, it was overshadowed in the PC business by
Apple Computer Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.
Software manufacturers didn't create as much software for
Commodore's Amiga line as it did for Apple and IBM-compatible
machines.
In recent years, most of Commodore's business was in Europe.

