Dan's Amiga Mouse

What's this?  A hack for an Amiga mouse?

Yes, it's true.  In trying out Gene's PC mouse hack, I had a little trouble.  I accidentally broke
the circuit board from inside the PC mouse!  But, in the process of reassembling everything I 
discovered something quite interesting.

I have the "pregnant" mouse that came with the A3000, and discovered it had a cable with all the wires
already in it.  So I didn't need the extension cable for the PC mouse.  I had carefully removed all
the wires from the plug that connects to the Amiga mouse pcb and was in the process of rewiring the
PC mouse when I borke the circuit board.  So, being pretty pi**ed at myself, I started reassembling
the Amiga mouse.  I wondered why did this mouse have ALL the wires when my A500 mouse was missing the
wire needed for the third mouse button.  I decided to completely disassemble the "pregnant" mouse.

Much to my surprise, I was reminded of just how cheap Commodore was.  The "pregnant" mouse pcb was
designed to have a third button!  There was a place, with holes, to solder in a switch like the other
two, and the correct wire was already connected to the trace for that switch as the third mouse button.
I guess they decided to cut costs and not install the switch and redisgn the buttons for the third
button.

Anyways, I thought, why couldn't I just put the third button in the Amiga mouse?  That's all I really
wanted was a three button mouse, which was why I tried Gene's hack.

Here's what I did.  I removed one of the switches from the now broken PC mouse and soldered it in place
on the Amiga mouse pcb.  This switch was a little different, but it happened to line up directly in the
middle of the buttons in the mouse case.  I then took a drill and, holding the two buttons together to
keep them from moving out of the way, drilled a hole in the two buttons such that a knob (or whatever)
could stick up just past the other buttons directly in the middle.  I happened to have a old 2400 baud
modem I was using for parts that I robbed a red LED off of.  I broke the legs off of the LED, smoothed
out the bottom, and glued it  directly onto the top of the button.  Now, if you want, you could use a
different switch, maybe one that would stick through the hole without having to glue one on, but I was
flat broke at the time and couldn't got get anything else.  Probably the best solution would be to use
a switch from another "pregnant" mouse.  The holes in the pcb are made for the same type switch.

Be careful when reassembling the mouse.  I had to mount the switch in such a way that it made for tight 
spacing next to the mouse cable.  And, you need to be careful about the switch sticking up through the
hole.  Don't move the case pieces around too much or you could break off your switch knob or the switch
itself.

Once the mouse is fully assembled, plug it in and start up your Amiga.  Now you should have a third mouse
button!

I don't know if this will work on a newer Amiga mouse or not.  Best way to find out is to disassemble it
and see if there is enough wires in the cable (should be 9 plus shield) and if there is a space for the
third button.  If so, then all you need is a switch and maybe a knob or button depending on your switch.

Please email me if you use this, and let me know if this works for anything other than the Amiga "pregnant"
mouse.  I hope this is of help.

Daniel J. Andrea II
dandrea@unix.tfs.net

