Short: Spidersoft Shareware now FREEWARE!
Author: unsatisfactory@bigfoot.com (Chris Young)
Uploader: unsatisfactory@bigfoot.com (Chris Young)
Type: docs/anno

I have released all my old shareware software as unrestricted freeware.  You
can get it from the "ssoft" part of the FTP directory at Unsatisfactory
Software;

http://www.bigfoot.com/~unsatisfactory/

Please do not write to any addresses in the archives, as I have moved.
If you want to contact me, send e-mail to unsatisfactory@bigfoot.com

Here is a list of files at ftp/ssoft;

cfaves1.zip  Children's Favourites 1 (Songs & Nursery Rhymes)
cfaves2.zip  Children's Favourites 2
cfaves2.zip  Children's Favourites 3 (also includes alphabet game)
hwmrarfs.zip Home Wine Making Recipe & Record File System (database)
nlwinner.zip National Lottery Winner
ssutils.zip  Garden Designer, Property Protector and BetterBootScreen
tshooter.zip TroubleShooter (teletext-style troubleshooting program)
twarden.zip  Oh No! Traffic Warden (based on a board game)

I apologise for them all being ZIP archives, but due to my poor (free) web
hosting, I can't upload LhA archives :-(

Be warned that they were all written up to 5 years ago, so some may be out
of date or just completely useless.  They all work on my current A1200/30,
so you shouldn't have any problems with them - just make sure you read the
docs, as some require assigns and NL_Winner has a bug workaround which you
need to pay attention to, else it won't work! (don't worry - it's not
complicated)

Some of these programs are previously unreleased, others were distributed
through the "traditional" PD libraries (especially 17 Bit Software - now
merged with another company, I believe - many thanks to them for
distributing some of these the first time round).  None were available on
the Internet.  Until now.

If someone wants to recompress the archives, and upload them to Aminet,
then I'd be grateful.

--
Just in case:  I have NOT abandoned the Amiga.  I am writing the occasional
piece of free software under the name of Unsatisfactory Software (it's all
distributed on Aminet, so you have no excuse for not knowing about this...)

The reason for re-releasing all my shareware as freeware is, well, there are
several reasons;

1. I no longer have the source code for some of them.  I can't really expect
people to pay for anything which I won't be able to update (and they all
contain my old address, so I'd have to re-compile them anyway)

2. I don't really have the time to support all these programs, as I have a
full-time job and several other on-going projects.

3. They are old.  I don't expect people to pay for programs I might have
written 5 years ago.

4. I don't really think they are good enough (not now, anyway - they might
have been at the time) for me to expect payment.

