Short:    Uridium-II Hard Drive Installer
Author:   girv@girvnet.demon.co.uk (John Girvin)
Uploader: girv@girvnet.demon.co.uk (John Girvin)
Type:     game/patch
Requires: 4Mb Fast RAM, 2Mb HD space, Installer 43.3+, WHDLoad 0.322+

TITLE

    U2Install


VERSION

    1.05

    Latest updates available from my homepage:
    http://www.girvnet.demon.co.uk/


AUTHOR

    John Girvin

    E-Mail: girv@girvnet.demon.co.uk

    WWW:    http://www.girvnet.demon.co.uk

    SnailMail:
            John Girvin,
            25 Moorgate Street,
            Belfast BT5 5BZ,
            Northern Ireland,
            United Kingdom.


DESCRIPTION

    This is version 1.05 of a hard drive installation and trainer package
    for the Graftgold game "Uridium-II". Features high-score loading and
    saving and in-game trainer and quit keys (high-scores are not saved
    if you use any trainers!)

    Please read this document *thoroughly* before attempting to use
    the installer! There are some important points you may miss if
    you just dive right in, so much as it may be against your nature,
    I REALLY DO THINK YOU SHOULD READ THIS FILE. You have been warned!

    Requires version 0.608 or later of the WHDLoad package by Bert Jahn
    (v0.608 included in this archive). The latest WHDLoad package, along
    with installers for many other games and demos, may be obtained from
    Bert's support page at:

            http://www.fh-zwickau.de/~jah/whdload.html


INSTALLING THE GAME

    Read the "SPACE REQUIREMENTS" and "BUGS/CAVEATS" sections of
    this document NOW! They are important. Really.

    Workbench or CLI use.

    Installation is best handled by using the "Installer" program
    from Commodore, which should have been provided with your
    original system disks. It is also available from Aminet as:

    util/misc/Installer-43_3.lha
    (NB: the version number might have changed!)

    After installation is complete, you may delete the directory
    produced by extracting this archive ("U2Install"). All files
    required for running the game will be found in the "Uridium-II"
    directory created during installation.


    FROM WORKBENCH:
    ---------------
    Extract all files in the archive to your system.
    They will be extracted to a drawer called "U2Install"

    Open the newly created "U2Install" drawer and double click on
    the "Install_Uridium-II" icon found there.

    Follow the instructions given to you by the Installer program:
    - when asked to insert a game disk, do so and wait for the
      floppy activity light to go out before clicking the 'Proceed'
      button. MAKE SURE YOU INSERT THE CORRECT DISK!

    - during the disk image creation process, all multitasking will
      be disabled and you will not be able to do anything else with
      your Amiga. DON'T PANIC! This is normal.

    The game will be installed to a directory you select on your
    hard drive. You will be alerted if installation fails for any
    reason.


    FROM CLI/SHELL:
    ---------------
    Extract all files in the archive to your system.
    They will be extracted to a directory called "U2Install"

    CD to the "U2Install" directory created when you extracted
    the acrhive.

    Type "Installer Install_Uridium-II" and press RETURN.

    Follow the instructions given to you by the Installer program:
    - when asked to insert a game disk, do so and wait for the
      floppy activity light to go out before clicking the 'Proceed'
      button.

    - during the disk image creation process, all multitasking will
      be disabled and you will not be able to do anything else with
      your Amiga. DON'T PANIC! This is normal.

    The game will be installed to a directory you select on your
    hard drive. You will be alerted if installation fails for any
    reason.


PLAYING THE GAME

    Read the "BUGS/CAVEATS" section of this document NOW!

    From Workbench, open the "Uridium-II" drawer created during
    installation and click on the "Uridium-II_HD" icon.

    From the CLI/Shell, CD to the "Uridium-II" directory and
    type:
         WHDLoad SLAVE=Uridium-II_HD NOVBRMOVE PRELOAD


    When the game is running, the following keys may be used:

    Keys "1" to "=" = select player 1 weapon
    Keys "Q" to "]" = select player 2 weapon
                F7  = activate "Land Now" message
                F8  = give both players 5 Mantas
                F9  = quit and make a coredump (for debugging only)
                F10 = quit the game and return to Workbench.

    Please note that if you use *any* of the trainer keys then the
    high scores will NOT be saved to disk! Crime doesn't pay!


IF THE INSTALL DOES NOT WORK ?

   Adapted from the WHDLoad support site.

   First, U2Install is written to work with the _ORIGINAL_. Don't try
   to install with a version which is altered in any way.

   There are various reasons possible why the install may not work.
   Either it is a hardware problem (your machine differs in
   speed/cpu/ram/...) or you have a other version of the program to
   install.

   Here is a list of common problems and how to solve them:
     * a requester with "Exception xyz ..."
          + set the ToolType "NOVBRMOVE" and/or "NOCACHE"

     * graphics errors
          + set the ToolType "NOCACHE"

     * the program hangs with a black screen and nothing happens
          + set the ToolType "NOCACHE"
          + free as much as possible memory, that whdload can preload all
            files (set ToolType "PRELOAD")
          + make sure there is enough free room on your disk if the
            program tries to save highscores or savegames
          + unset the ToolTypes "NTSC" and "NOTRAPHANDLER"

   If you have a problem running U2Install then I WANT TO KNOW! Please,
   feel free to get in touch. If you send a bug report include at least
   the following information:
     * version of the game (eg. 1 MB English Version ECS), number of
       disks etc.
     * configuration of your machine including type of Amiga, CPU, CPU
       speed, amount of chip and fast memory, gfx chipset (OCS/ECS/AGA),
       special hardware, kickstart version
     * version of WHDLoad
     * description what happens (error while imaging, error while
       starting, gfx errors, keyboard hangs, game crashes in level 15...)

   But again there will be NO FIXES FOR NON ORIGINALS of course !


SPACE REQUIREMENTS

    Requires approximately 2Mb of free space on your hard drive.
    Please do not attempt installation if you have less than this
    amount free on the partition you intend to install Uridium-II
    on.

    Do not attempt to crunch or pack the disk image files ("Disk.1"
    etc.) or the Uridium-II-HD program. The WHDLoad program may
    be packed like any normal executable program.

    The game disks are cached in memory during play, so you will
    require approximately 4Mb of free RAM in order to play the
    game. If you have less than this the loader will attempt to
    load data as it needs it, but I have found this to be slow
    and unreliable at best with Uridium II. Basically, the more
    memory you have the better!


BUGS/CAVEATS

    U2Install is provided "as is" and is used at your own risk.

    The author is not liable for any loss or damage caused by the
    use or misuse of this program. It almost certainly *wont* destroy
    your Amiga, but if it does (or does anything else untoward) then
    I cannot be held responsible.

    When running the installer it is advisable to disable any virus
    checking software you may have running. The original game disk
    uses a non-standard bootblock which will most likely cause your
    virus checker to complain and this could interefere with the
    installation process. It is not necessary to disable such programs
    before playing the game once it is installed.

    The installer is written in as system friendly a way as possible,
    but the game is not. Owners of heavily expanded Amigas may have
    problems running the game, but this is not the fault of U2Install
    and there is little I can do about it :( Try the usual system
    degrading tricks if you run into difficulties, or get in touch
    and Ill try to sort you out.

    The current high scores can be saved to disk, but this will only
    happen if you use the F10 quit key. If you reset or switch off your
    Amiga without pressing F10 then any changes to the high score table
    since you loaded the game will not be saved. You may also quit the
    game without saving high score changes by pressing F9.


HISTORY

    1.00  First version. Released to Aminet in June 1997.

    1.01  Released to Aminet in June 1997.
          Fixed address error bug in slave.
          Added "upgrade" option to installer script.

    1.02  Released to Aminet in July 1997.
          Slave now gives Uridium-II correct CPU/chipset values
            (previously told it you had a 68000/ECS machine!).
          Removed manual protection.

    1.03  Released to Aminet in July 1997.
          Handles 2 versions of Uridium-II.
          Changed high-score saving method to save only at quit time.

    1.04  Released to Aminet in July 1997.
          Added "Land Now" and weapon select trainers.
          Game now uses at most 1Mb of chip memory when running.

    1.05  Released to Aminet in September 1997.
          Automatically disables cache for 68040 machines.
          2Mb chipmem machines can use extended samples again
          (I broke this in 1.04!)


HOST NAMES

    Uploaded to wuarchive.wustl.edu (Aminet) probably in game/patch

    Latest updates available from my homepage:
    http://www.girvnet.demon.co.uk/


FILE NAMES

    U2Install.lha
    U2Install.readme


PRICE

    One email message - U2Install is emailware.
    (if you use it then let me know :)

    I'd also appreciate a postcard of your home town, especially if you
    live outside of the UK! This isnt required, but it would be *nice* :)


DISTRIBUTABILITY

    (c) 1997 John Girvin. No modifications may be made to either the
    program or its accompanying documentation without my consent.

    Freely Distributable, provided all files are included unchanged
    in any distribution and no more than minimal handling/media
    costs are charged.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

    "Uridium-II" is (c) 1993 Andrew Braybrook/Graftgold.
    Piracy is theft. If you like the game then buy it
    (and run it from your hard drive with U2Install) !

    WHDLoad is (c) Bert Jahn (jah@fh-zwickau.de).
    Bert's homepage, with the latest version of WHDLoad
    and installers for many games and demos can be found
    at: http://www.fh-zwickau.de/~jah/whdload.html

    U2Install uses GPatch 1.6 (c) 1997 by Ralf Gruner
    (ralf.gruner@t-online.de)

    Thanks to Erol Ismael for lending me the original
    disks and beta testing the first versions of U2Install.

    Thanks to Andy Till for making me aware of another version
    of Uridium-II and sending me the disk images.

    Thanks to Harry for the "Land Now" and weapon select trainers.

    And finally, thanks to Jean-Francois Fabre for discussions
    on U2Install, HD Installers and life in general!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
$VER: U2Install documentation version 1.05 (c) 1997 John Girvin 