That patch applies to Venus the Flytrap (c) 1990 Gremlin.
2 versions are supported: The original release and the rerelease
without intro (on that first disk is also Ghosts and Ghouls, ill 
never install that crap).

You will have to install it with that install to run it from hd.
That install needs WHDLoad and The Patcher 1.02 in the path (eg in c:).

Fixed:  Lots of dbf-delays replaced.
	Lots of blitwaits inserted.
	Ingameprotection removed.
	The pre-level-screen wasnt displayed at all.

Quit game with F10.

Game codes and cheat mode: MANTIDS, CICADAS, PSYLLIDS, PIERIDS, SATYRID,
	 LYCAENID, PYRALID, NOCTUID for the levels. Cheats are: MERCURY,
	 MARS, JUPITER, SATURN, PLUTO. Simply enter one after another
         in the password-screen.
	There is a position in Translucid Plane which is really hard
	 to manage. Its a jump from an abyss into an abyss, but theres
	 a toggle-field and landing on it can not be avoided.
	 Solution: Jump and turn in the air so that only your front feet
	 land on the toggle-field, and your back feet not, and so the
	 toggle-field doesnt take effect, or use a cheat mode.

Known Bugs: With enabled caches the intro is played much too fast. But
	     the game itself runs ok. So use this for amazing fast 
	     loading times, when you dont mind the intro speed.

Note: To skip the intro do not only press ESC but hold ESC until the message
	 vanishes. That 'feature' was also present in the original.

The game should run with 1.5 MB memory without starting the 
workbench, its tested with 2 MB ram. But since every track of 
the first disk is loaded on its own, that looks strange without PRELOAD.

Comment: That piece hat a bug to laugh about at the first disk: It was
	  copyprotected, the protection was accessed, but the result
	  was never checked.
	 I think it combines weird graphics with strange sound and
	  good playbility, so it was worth to fix it, since it did
	  run only in the demomode on higher amigas. I dont know what
	  the game made crash exactly, but i think the many dbf-delays
	  had their consequencies...

Full whdload package:	aminet:dev/misc/whdload#?.lha
Other installs:		http://www.fh-zwickau.de/~jah/whdload.html
