
              --------------------------------------------
                ASSOCIATION FOR AMIGA MUSIC PRESERVATION
              --------------------------------------------


 -1- Who Are We?
     ---------- 

This is a non profit association that consists at present of two persons:


 * Crown of Cryptoburners:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Born in 1974. I was a member of The Dark Demon before I joined the
realm of Cryptoburners. I never managed to compose something that one
would like to ear and that might explain the profond respect I have
for musicians. They often cheer me up with their tracks. I did swapping
mainly and I gained a nice collection of demos that way. Graphics is
also having some interest for me. Nowadays I concentrate on modules and
emailing my friends... I am working as camera assistant on tv and
short films. Gee.. if you want to know more, email me.. I like that! :)


 * Curt Cool of Depth:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Born in 1976. Scene career started in late 1992 at The Party 2. Formed Depth
with some friends in 1993. I am an Amiga musician, swapper, organizer and
diskmag editor - though I'm pretty lazy regarding some of these activities
these days. I have been a module collector since before I joined the scene -
I collected my first modules back in 1991-92 - I still remember the first
disks, and at the time I am doing a series of module CDs called ULTIMOD (I'm
aware that there is a pc soundplayer of the same name - well, fuck it!)
this collection not only contains Amiga modules but also modules in AHX, 
DIGIBooster, DBPro, ScreamTracker, FastTracker and some other common formats
- so it's not Amiga only. I am a student at the university of Odense, 
Denmark, studying Danish literature and language. I'm also involved in making 
the students revue as an actor, as well as some other creative things, and 
sometimes this means that I'm not able to be as active regadring mod 
collection as I would perhaps like to be. Feel free to email me if you're 
interested in any kind of Mods CD swapping or for the purposes mentioned below.

Oh yes, and thanks to Crown for initiating this, and writing the textfile...
:-)


 -2- What Do We Do?
     -------------

We are running the most comprehensive, complete and precise database
we can about amiga music. That means that we gather all the music but also
information about & interviews of amiga musicians. It's a huge project as
you can see. But we are motivated!

The point isn't to make money nor to spread tunes to everybody but
to make sure time won't make disapear this part of our common memory.

You understand we don't only concentrate on the past but on ALL the
period of amiga's music creations: Past, Present, Future. We have now
reached a point when it gets nearly impossible to continue without
your help. That's the reason why we cry and we want to be heard! ;)

Yes we are amiga enthusiasts. Sure thing! Within just a few days now, a 
new ripper, the development of which we are involved in, will be released 
to the world. It's amiga only and named: "Serial Ripper". Make sure to get 
it from aminet and other amiga sites.


 -3- Our Motivation
     --------------

Unless you don't understand english, you most certainly understand that
we like the amiga music quite much. It is to be said we also have a lot
of respect for some amiga musicians. We have now spent several years on 
collecting as many modules and exotic formats as we could possibly 
find as well as all information we could gather about musicians.

Both of us are still active in today's zZZz sleeping zZZz scene and we 
have been for many years. That's no secret we have had loads of good 
moments. And that's what we don't want to forget.

Unfortunately that "quest" of ours cannot be done without your help.
It hurts us to think that some amiga music is lost forever. We know it's 
already the case and we put a lot of effort on contacting all possible
musicians we can find, and ask for their mods. We also rip from all the 
productions we can possibly find. But it's not enough. We have a total 
of over 60.000 tracks so far and we believe there are lots and lots more 
that were never heard, spread or ripped.

Those music (as well as graphics, demos, etc..) are part of amiga's
history and of yours aswell. They have to be preserved one way or another.
We are here for that. (so we were told) 


 -4- What Do We Need?
     ---------------

* Let's divide it in few parts:

a) Tunes:
   ¯¯¯¯¯

This is our basic need. As told earlier we have +60.000 but we need more.
There is no prefered format and you can submit protracker, sound/noisetracker
and all exotic formats that exist (future composer, tfmx, sound fx,...).

In order to ease your work we have included our lists to this archieve.
You can  have a look if it pleases you. Of course you don't have to check
all music you send us. We do the dirty job! ;)

Amiga games music are also very welcome.. you can check our lists if you
like. you can see we like them a lot! :)


b) information:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

That's a vast demand isn't it? Well, let us explain...
The infos we need mainly refer to the musicians (how logical) and here
is how we need them:

Musician Handle (today's handle)
His ex-Handle(s)
His Group and ex-Group(s).
His Family + Given Names and Nationality.
His Email and/or Site Address.
[if possible his snail mail address/phone].

Why all this you wonder? Simply because many musicians changed their
handles during their composing period and it can get tricky at times
to find out who did what!?! Believe us.. Our aim is to also to can get in
touch with the musician by email/snail mail. And it helps knowing some names.

c) Pictures:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

We are also after all possible pictures of amiga musicians. If you have
some shots that very much interests us. Scans of all sorts, etc...
Or if he/they (musicians) kindly sent you their photo?! All those...

d) Productions:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

Demos, Musicdisks, Packs, etc... are a great source of ripping
material for us. There are always stuff that we never got to see,
and it's likely you have some rare ones (prods) on disks, hardrives.
We also have lists of what we currently have so it's easy for us to
check.

e) Cd Roms, Disks, Hard Drives:
   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

As an active (ex)scener, it's possible that you have some cd-roms that contain
some material of the kind that we are searching for. Or maybe you have a
collection of mods, made a backup, etc..? Any formats are accepted - just tell 
us about it first, and we'll sort something out - no format is too strange
=).


 -5- Who Can Help?
     ------------

Basically anyone! That means sceners and non sceners. Famous and lamers =).
All those that touched an amiga are likely to be able to help. You too 
have/have had a lot of good moments with your amiga and it's now time
you give a bit of your time to prevent the music from being lost forever.

If you have been ripping music, if you are a composer, or just someone who,
for some reason happen to have some amiga music from a friend/ex. groupmember/
ex. user on your board/(ex.)-lover/..., tell us about it, and we'll by all
means sort something out!

It doesn't matter how little you actually think you can help. There is
always one way or another you can do something for us. 


 -6- What Can You Do?
     ---------------

Think: What do you have that could be of help? (Check the "What do we need"
column). Do you have an address book in which the family+given names of some 
amiga musicians are written? Do you have some internal mags that were sent to 
the members of your (ex) group(s)?!Do you have disks, cd roms, etc.. with mods? 
Are you in contact with some amiga musicians or do you know some people that 
are?

Contact us: Let's talk about it and see what you want to do, if you'd like
to join, support continuously etc. But please, no 200Mb emails without
contacting first... ;-)

Send: Modules or module lists - big or small, many or few. What you have to 
understand is that although you may feel your contribution will be too 
little (you only know his family name, you only have 3 mods, etc..) it can 
still be a great help to us. And it certainly will make our day! :)

There are lists in this archieve so have a look at them, you can find
out some mods whose author is unknown to us or/and provide some 
extra information. 

We also included an interview form. Answer it if you are a musician
and/or send it to people that you think should be interviewed. We
Want ALL musicians interviewed. No matter if you/they composed only
few tunes!

Some composers (doh, optic, curt cool, etc..) are still composing
on the amiga. Some releases see the light still (check trsi) and we
want todays modules aswell! :)

Of course, best is anyway we have some discussions by email, phone, 
snail mail... Then we know how we shall proceed. Just drop us a line
we are always pleased..


 -7- What Do You Get?
     ---------------
     
As this is a non profit association, you are very unlikely to get dollars.     
(they are also too expensive these days) ;)   Seriously, we couldn't think
of letting you down. All material that we have end on cd roms (they say
it's time proof). We think it's a good idea you get a cd or such with
mods?!

Now this part concerns the musicians that wish to contact us... Many
of the composers we have been able to contact have lost or partly lost or
integrally the music they composed (hd crash, selling their amiga 
and disks, etc..) and were happy when we could provide them with the tunes
they couldn't retrieve. You might not be too proud of your early
compositions and you may feel uncertain about sending them further. Please
keep in mind that they are part of your own and the scene's history and as
such need to be preserved. And they aren't going to be spread or uploaded
to sites if you don't want it. You might like to hear them (with 
nostalgy) in few years and get your (grand) children to listen to them. On 
the cd we will return your favour, all tunes are unpacked and multi platform. 
Check the deliplayer for pc, it plays virtually all amiga sound formats.

Some people ask us if we could send them all the mods from certain composers,
etc.. It is virtually impossible for us to do so to everyone unless of
course something has been sent first.. We spend most our free time and 
money on this and it's really nice being rewarded with some mods or
information we were missing. If there are some tunes we have that you 
really want, we are pretty sure you can find few thing of interest for
us (demos, mods, etc..) Just make an effort.. :) 

All material that is submitted to us (disks, photos, etc..) will be 
returned within just a few days (speak for yourself, Crown - I'm damn' lazy
so if send to me, replace the "days" by "weeks" or "months" (not "years", I
promise) -CC). There is no way we will steal or keep the hard drives or 
anything you send us. So no fear.. Scene Spirit, eh!


 -8- Addresses
     ---------

We will make a mailinglist as more people join in, to be able to discuss
anything regarding amiga mods effectively. Adress to come.
     
[crown of cryptoburners]     

garnier jean-baptiste
43, rue de port en bessin
14400 bayeux
france

telephone: +33  (0) 2 31 21 35 07
           +358 (9) 50 74 007 [finland]

email: khaarla@cc.helsinki.fi
       crown@cyberjunkie.com

site: who codes html? the only java i know is to be danced! ;)

[curt cool of depth]

frank e. larsen
roersvej 17b, st.
5000 odense c.
denmark

email: curtcool@worldonline.dk
       curtcool@depth.org
       curtcool@image.dk

ICQ:   38563171

And please, no gigantic emails without asking me first - no free i-net
yet... =)


 -9- Last Words
     ----------
     
We sincerely hope you will give few minutes of your time to our project.
If you can give in hours or days, we will be even happier.
Most of you might be very musy with studies, work, etc.. and your
material (disks, etc..) might be far away. How about paying your parents
a visit and checking the cellar that contains all traces of your
amiga activities? How about calling that old friend of yours as you
promised yourself few times already? How about giving the scene a bit
of what it gave you during the years you were in it?

If some people would like to run a database that concern amiga demos,
graphics, etc.. please contact us.. we could all work together to keep
the amiga (scene) spirit alive. We can take in consideration the
joining of few in this association. But only motivated people will be
accepted.

It's clear we cannot do it without you. So no matter how little you can
help. Help Us! that's all we had to say and thanx for reading this all
the way to the end! Now we need to sleep.. ;)

Check aminet for the first released of "Serial Ripper". Should rock you
dudes... and remember that it's emailware - write Dr. Ice an email! =)

Last thing to state... We only want people that can help, no hang on
lamers that are going to make us waste our time (better spend it on
ripping, etc). No offence but we need only pure minded people! :)

                     regards from the two (music) maniacs...
                     
                                                 Crown & Curt Cool. 
