





                                                                COURIER HST


                                                                  CHAPTER 2
                                                         SET-UP AND TESTING


          
                              Figure 2.1 -- Courier HST


          PACKAGE COMPONENTS

          The Courier HST package contains the following items in addition
          to this manual:

               o    The Courier HST modem

               o    An RJ11C phone cord

               o    A power adapter

               o    A Quick-Reference card, in the manual

               o    Your warranty card, to be filled out and returned to
                    USRobotics, Inc.

          OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS

          The Courier HST has minimal operational requirements.  Be sure to
          read the information in the front of this manual about radio and
          television interference and connecting to the phone company.  In
          addition, you should be aware of the following:

                o   Follow the operating instruction in Appendix E-4 if the
                    modem is to be used in either of the following types of
                    installation.

                    1)   The modem will be installed in a key system PBX in
                         which RJ12 or RJ13 jacks are used rather than the
                         RJ11 jack.

                    2)   The modem will be attached to a user-installed
                         phone line or a line leased from the telephone
                         company.  Often referred to as dedicated or
                         private, this type of line is used for a direct,
                         continuous connection between two modems.  The
                         connection is made without dialing.

               o    If the modem is installed in a Hewlett Packard system,
                    be sure to follow the instructions in Appendix E-5.

               o    If you're working with a computer rather than a
                    terminal, communications software is required to put

                                                                         2-1










                                                                COURIER HST


                    the computer in Terminal Mode.  Some communications
                    programs do this automatically when you load the
                    program, while others require typing a function key or
                    other operation.  If necessary, refer to your
                    communications software documentation for instructions.

          RS-232C Connector Requirements

          You'll need an RS-232C cable to connect the modem to your
          computer or terminal.  Use a shielded cable to ensure minimal
          interference with radio and television reception.

          The modem takes a DB-25P (25-pin plug, or male) connector, but
          computer equipment varies.  Check the serial port at the rear of
          your machine, labeled MODEM, COMMUNICATIONS, EIA or with a phone
          symbol.  (Don't use the port marked PRINTER or AUX.)

          The port will be either a socket (female) or plug (male) that
          typically accommodates 25 or 9 pins.  For example, the port on
          the IBM PC, XT and some compatibles is a plug that takes a DB-25S
          (socket) connector.  The port on the IBM AT and some compatibles
          is a plug that takes a DB-9S (socket) connector.

          NOTE:  Appendix B-1 defines the RS-232C pin assignments required
          to operate the modem.  Be sure to check the appendix if you're
          not sure what type of 25- or 9-pin connector you need, or if
          you're building your own connector.  If your machine has other
          than a 25- or 9-pin port, check your documentation to see what
          type of RS-232C connector is required.

          ASSEMBLING THE MODEM

          1.   Turn off the computer or terminal and its peripheral
               devices.

          2.   Examine the label on the bottom of the modem.  In addition
               to the summaries and other information, the label contains
               icons to aid in modem assembly.  Check the interfaces at the
               back of the modem, shown in the following photograph.

                      Figure 2.2 -- Interface End, Courier HST


          3.   Now review the attached interfaces in Figure 2.3.

                         Figure 2.3 -- Connected Courier HST


          4.   Check to make sure that the power switch is OFF; press it
               towards the zero in the 1/0 icon on the bottom label.  Then
               plug the small end of the power supply cord into the power

                                                                         2-2










                                                                COURIER HST


               jack at the back of the modem, and plug the power adapter
               into a standard 115-volt AC wall socket.

               Disconnect your present phone cable from the wall jack.
               Plug one end of the phone cord that came with the modem into
               the wall jack, and the other end into the phone jack near
               the wall-jack icon.

               NOTE:  Older telephone installations may not have the
               appropriate modular wall jack and plug.  Adapters and RJ11C
               connectors are available from your telephone company or
               computer dealer.

               If you want to keep your telephone connected for
               conventional calls, plug its cord into the jack near the
               phone icon.  You can also use both your telephone and modem
               in one call, although not at the same time.  Appendix E-1,
               Using Both Voice and Data Communications, explains how to
               switch control of the phone line between the phone and the
               modem.

          5.   Next, check the positions of the bank of Dual In-Line
               Package (DIP) Switches located at the back of the modem.
               These switches are set at the factory to the positions
               desired by most users, as shown in Figure 2.4.

                      Figure 2.4 -- DIP Switch Factory Settings


               Use the guide on the bottom of the modem or refer to the
               more detailed summary in Appendix B-3 to determine if your
               situation requires different settings. If you're connecting
               the modem to a dedicated line or to a small interoffice or
               PBX system, review Appendix E-4 for special installation and
               operating instructions.

          6.   The final step is to connect the modem to the computer's or
               terminal's serial port with the RS-232C cable described
               earlier in this chapter.  Attach the appropriate connectors
               to the modem and to the serial port.

          NOTE:  When you are using the modem, be sure not to cover the
          vents on the top of the case.

          The modem is now ready to be tested and operated.

          TESTING

          To verify that your modem is working properly, follow these
          steps:


                                                                         2-3










                                                                COURIER HST


          1.   Turn on your computer or terminal and clear the screen.
               Then turn the Courier's power switch ON.  These front
               indicator LEDs will light up:

                    CD   Carrier Detect (if you haven't changed the factory
                         setting of DIP switch 6)
                    TR   Data Terminal Ready (if you haven't changed the    
                         factory setting of DIP switch 1)
                    MR   Modem Ready/Power
                    RS   Request to Send, if your computer/terminal         
                         supports RTS on the RS-232C interface
                    CS   Clear to Send

          2.   If you're using a personal computer, load your
               telecommunications software and put your computer in
               Terminal Mode.  This causes the computer to function as a
               terminal rather than a processor:  everything you type at
               the keyboard goes directly to the modem.  If necessary,
               refer to your communications software documentation for
               instructions.

          3.   Next, check to see if your machine and modem are
               communicating with each other by entering the command to get
               the modem's attention.

               Type either upper or lower case letters, not a combination.
               Enter every command to the modem by pressing the Enter key
               (Carriage Return), shown in the example between angle
               brackets.  (Don't type the angle brackets.)

               Type the following:

                    AT <Enter>

               If everything is correct, the modem responds as follows:

                    OK

               NOTE:  The AT command is used alone to check the
               modem/terminal interface.  AT is also the mandatory prefix
               for all other commands except A/ and A>, used to repeat
               execution of the command in the command buffer, and +++, the
               escape code.  These exceptions are explained in Chapter 6.

          4.   The modem is shipped with DIP switch 4 UP, causing the modem
               to display (echo) your keyboard commands.  If your typed
               command is not displayed, your local echo is OFF.  To turn
               the local echo ON, send the modem the following command.

                    ATE1 <Enter>


                                                                         2-4










                                                                COURIER HST


               If double characters appear on the screen, both your modem
               and software are set to local echo ON.  Either set your
               software to local echo OFF, or turn the modem's echo OFF
               with this command:

                    ATE0 <Enter>

          5.   If no OK appears on your screen, check out the connections
               at the interface end of the modem.  Then carefully review
               the previous instructions to see if you've missed something.

          For information on other testing such as the Analog Loopback
          Self-Test, see Appendix E-6.







































                                                                         2-5




