
Amiga1.iff:
----------

DRAFT

DON GILBREATH SPEECH
ESCOM PRESS CONFERENCE
MAY 30, FRANKFURT

Hello, my name is Don Gilbreath. I have 12 years' association with
Commodore. I have worked in various capacities from engineering to
technical sales and marketing. As a Director of Product and Market
Development, I designed and managed among other products the team that
brought CDTV to market.

I am happy to be here today for the re-birth of Amiga. After spending some
quality time with ESCOM management, I am convinced they possess the
marketing finesse and strength to make Amiga successful into the 21st
century.

Currently, I am Chief Technical Officer for VisCorp, an interactive
set-top box developer and application designer based in the United States.
Our executive offices are in Chicago, and we have engineering teams based
in West Chester, Pennsylvania and the Silicon Valley. VisCorp is the first
company to be granted a license to use the Amiga technology in interactive
set-tops.

Before I explain why we believe Amiga is the right platform of choice for
set-tops, let me explain the current landscape of North American set-top
offerings.

IT IS A MESS - MASS CONFUSION! Companies are scrambling, forming joint
ventures for the purpose of joint ventures...




Amiga2.iff:
----------

We are aware of some 40 set-top projects. Seventeen design wins alone are
for Philips chip sets and an OS9 derivative (DAVID), the closest
competition for an Amiga offering.

Some of the other set-top projects (or camps) range from pure video game-
based platforms such as Nintendo, Sony, and Sega to a multi-functino, cost
prohibitive (in terms of memory) Microsoft-based platform as well as
similar offerings from Apple, SUN, and Silicon Graphics. Amiga will find a
home between these two ranges in terms of cost/features and the development
community.

There is another camp which tend to be as much of a *target* as a potential
*partner* and include Scientific Atlanta and General Instrument. They are
currently not as strong in computer technology as cable modems, video
delivery, and authorization schemes. There is synergy and relationships
will develop between Amiga and these two companies in particular.

What is this set-top business all about?

	1. Selling product - initial hardware sale/lease or licensing - the
      enabling technology.

	2. Potential of ongoing revenues - hard goods, soft goods - providing
      movies, telephone service, and grocery shopping

	3. Controlling transactions - classic gate keeper model.

We need a consortium because the following is at stake:

	1. Self-interest in semiconductors - hardware design win.

	2. Operating system dominance - where applications reside.

	3. Delivery system dominance - cable, teleco, radio, satellite, etc.

	4. Development community - tools and understanding of next generation
      software.

	5. Secure transactions - financial and developer community backed
      (musicians to software writers). To the customer, it must be 
      friendly and secure.



Amiga3.iff:
----------


Set-top world common goal:

	1. Low cost -

	2. Content rich - variety

	3. Deploy a platform to meet the above parameters: Allow an upgrade
      path similar to a computer i.e. cable model du jour, MPEG audio/
      video, etc., ISDN, wireless cable modems, etc.

The confusion:

	1% homes wired for 2-way high speed data...

The confusion stems from how this magic, high-speed data arrives to the
home: is it from a telephone, satellite, radio, cable, or some hybrid?
In out model it does not matter. We have OEM activities today in all of
these areas.


Our present VisCorp model, which is in homes today under the guise of a
market test, is a hybrid model utilizing both analog telephone and
broadcast data video. When the cable modem and digital audio and video
technologies settle, the federal laws may change as well. Our strategy is
to deploy a product that is useful today but provides a migration path to
this over-hyped, high-speed, low-cost world we don't live in.

The current product:

Over the past few years, we at VisCorp have been developing an Interactive
set-top platform. The VisCorp product starts by converging the television
set with the telephone. It converts the television set into an executive
speakerphone with one-touch on-screen dialling and caller ID. It has
built-in filters and font generators to convert on-line data services to
text that is readable at standard television viewing distances. It has a
built-in credit card reader and can support electronic directories,
classified advertising, and catalog shopping applications. Other features
include on-screen TV listings with one button recording capability, sending
faxes and


Amiga4.iff:
----------

Email, and accessing Internet and multi-participant games (thousands
playing simultaneously) that in some cases are tied to live TV events with
national scoring in place prizes and cash where legal.

The VisCorp product is currently being tested on a cable system in a
Detroit suburb where it is also supporting one-touch ordering of
pay-per-view and access to local bulletin board service including
restaurant reviews and local civic information.

So this sounds like a great product. So why the Amiga? Is there something
wrong? Absolutely nothing. It is our entry model, suitable today, and can
be sold at retail 1995 for under $300 or the price of a feature-rich
telephone, which it is. We have a custom chip program nearing completion
that further cost reduces this product and enables further dimensions in
interactive television in terms of the toy industry and education.

The Amiga-based version will be our second model. We plan to embark on a
crash program to further develop a chip set with our combined licenses and
patented technologies with Amiga functionality. The combined Amiga/VisCorp
interactive television platform will support all currently envisioned
interactive applications with the exception of full motion video on demand
and practical speed CD audio delivery. We do not think this is a handicap
as a base case offering. Speciality markets or cable customers can be
addressed with additional modules.

We encourage an Amiga set-top consortium to be formed immediately. We
believe a minimum base case design including encryption technology, if
possible, would be supported by consortium members. Since this platform is
destined for world markets, a software rating mechanism would include
parental lockout of adult features and include reviews, top sellers, etc.
This standard must be in place in a similar fashion to that of the movie
and music industry, thereby freeing the software development community to
treat it as a guaranteed publishing platform with secure distribution of
content and payment. This device which many of us will build in various
configurations will handle digitally secured conference calls to movies on
demand. The hools must be in place. Thanks to ESCOM with the Amiga
platform, we have an opportunity to change television.



Amiga5.iff:
----------

         Presentation at Amiga Press Conference May 30, 1995
         ---------------------------------------------------
                                 Draft

My name is Ed Goff. I'm a Philadelphia lawyer working with ESCOM and Amiga
Technologies GmbH, on a wide variety of issues related to the re-launch of
Amigas.

In particular, I will talk today on issues of licensing.

Our strategy will be somewhat different than the strategy that you saw from
Commodore in the past. It is our intention to have strategic program for
Amigas that will be as open as possible, and which will therfore drive the
Amiga technology into as wide a range of products and applications as is
possible.

First I would like to discuss the broadest type of licensing arrangements
that will fit within our plan, Strategic alliances. We intend to consummate
arrangements for further development of the Amiga technologies together
with strategic partners. These partners may be one or more well known
names in the electronic and telecommunications industries. Together with
the strategic partner or partners we intend to fund further development of
new and advanced products based partly on Amiga and partly on proprietary
and public systems provided by the strategic partner.

Unfortunately I am not at liberty at this time to discuss or even identify
potential strategic partners, as some of these discussions are at a very
early stage. However, you can understand that these strategic arrangements
often take the form of joint ventures, cross-licenses, cost and
risk-sharing agreements, and capital arrangements. As a result, we can only
announce the nature of such a strategic arrangement consistent with the
wishes of the strategic partner at the time the arrangement is finalized.

A second area of licensing that falls within our strategic framework for a
more open Amiga is embedded technology. We are currently pursuing
opportunities for licensing the Amiga technology or portions of it to
enterprises in these industries who will embed the Amiga in their products.
One example of this sort of arrangement is VisCorp, a potential maker of TV
set-top boxes. As you have heard or may hear from my colleagues, it is our
belief that the Amiga presents uniquely attractive and cost-effective
solutions to enterprises attempting to meet the specifications of the
telecommunications and cable industries. It is our belief that encouraging
vendors in these markets to embed Amiga capabilities or features could be
very exciting, and hopefully rewarding. In this regard, I encourage you to
make our intentions known as widely as possible so that we can get the
broadest possible spectrum of embedded technology licensees.

A third and less grandiose area of licensing involves people and companies
who are already using the technology covered by the portfolio of patents,
copyrights and trademarks now owned by ESCOM. Often this area can be
unpleasant because some of these folks have never recognized in any formal
way their use of the technology. We intend to review a wide variety of
products and components with a view to developing a 


Amiga6.iff:
----------

licensing arrangements with their makers, users and sellers. At the moment,
this is an uncharted area. It requires fairly intensive reviews, and often
difficult discussions. For that reason, I am unable at this time to give
you further details on potential licensees.

At this point, I would like to ask for questions you may have on any of
these areas.

Thank you.


Amiga7.iff:
----------

Speech W. Dietrich

Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,

My name is Wolf Dietrich from Phase 5 Digital products, a Frankfurt based
manufacturer of Amiga peripherals. I am happy to present to you at this
re-introduction of the Amiga series of computers the latest generation of
the 68K series of processors, the superscalar 68060 CPU. Phase 5 Digital
products has developed the first fully operational implementation of this
processor for the Amiga, marketed as the Cyberstorm 060 accelerator, which
is available now and shipping.

With this implementation of the powerful 68060 processor the new Amiga
models make a step ahead into the leading group of today's microcomputer
systems. The 68060 processor combines the powerful functionality and
instruction set of earlier 68K processors with a new superscalar
architecture, and adds performance-boosting features like two parallel
integer instruction units, larger data and instruction caches of 8K size, a
branch cache, and pipelined write accesses; this all means a combination of
the industry's most advanced technologies for processing performance
enhancements.

While software compatibility with existing applications is fully
maintained, more than 80 MIPS processing power let real-world applications
on the Amiga perform competitively with other high-end systems such as
Pentium and PowerPC based machines. In combination with the Amiga's other
architectural advantages this makes a powerful system for all
semiprofessional and professional applications, perfectly suited for
today's requirements for multimedia computing.

The figures shown here indicate the performance leap which the 68060 brings
to the Amiga. With speed increases by a factor between 4 and 5 times over
the original 68040 based Amiga systems - which have been powerful machines
already - time-consuming applications are dramatically accelerated. These
application benchmarks, still use unoptimized 68040 code, which can be
accelerated another 1.5 times by a simple optimization to the 68060's
speacial features, which is a most simple task for software developers now
that the 68060 is available.

The scalable superscalar architecture also opens a wide future for options
such as multi-processor systems, which either combine multiple 68060
processors, or even integrate other CPUs into such a system to build a most
flexible computer system for many various tasks.

As a conclusion, it can be said that the 68060 processor, integrated into
the Amiga architecture, offers true workstation power. With this
competitive performance and the full integration with the Amiga's
architectural advantages the Amiga will hold its position as an outstanding
multimedia computing system.

So far the overview on the 68060 technology for the Amiga. At the showroom,
some 68060 based Amiga systems can be seen running commong Amiga
applications, so you can get a personal impression of this advanced
technology. Thank you very much for your attention.



Amiga8.iff:
----------

Scala, Jon Bohmer
Founder of Scala
Vice President, New Business Development

Scala is in the business of computer televison:
that is, using a computer to produce and distribute television-type
programming.

The company is one of the world's leading developers of computer-based
television information solutions and the undisputed leader in multimedia
software for the Amiga platform. Available in eleven languages, Scala's
multimedia tools are distributed in more than 40 countries.

Scala was founded in Norway in 1987. Today we are headquartered outside
Washington DC, with international headquarters in Oslo and offices in the
United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden. Scala's team of
software engineers includes most of the people who originally developed the
Amiga operating system for Commodore.

Our main products are Scala Multimedia, a software package for the
production and playback of multimedia presentations, interactive training
applications, infotainment, and video titling; Scals InfoChannel, for
multimedia networking and information distribution; and Scala Interactive
Television, including software for the production of ITV content and the
operating environment for satellite and cable TV decoders.

All products share the Scala BackBone technology. This makes the software
independent of hardware platform and makes Scala solutions portable to
multiple environments. BackBone includes MMOS, which is an object-oriented
operating system layer specifically developed for multimedia applications,
and ScalaScript which is the scripting language we seek to establish as the
standard multimedia language of the future.

Since the Amiga went out of production a year ago, Scala has seen a
constant demand for Amigas, from both new and experienced users. We are
happy to see production resume, and to continue to support the Amiga
platform.

Together the Scala software technology and the Amiga hardware technology
make up a powerful and cost effective solution for everyone who needs a
multimedia package for home or office use. No other solution can match the
price performance of the Amiga and Scala combination. We look forward to
working with the new Amiga Technologies company in order to provide
ready-to-use solutions with every machine.

Scala's good design has long been one of oure strongest assets, and it is
an acknowledgement of our achievements that ESCOM has chosen one of our
designers to create the new look for the new Amiga

Editor's Contact:   Dag I. Danielsen, Information Manager
                    Scala, W. Thranesgt. 77, N-0175 Oslo, Norway
                    Tel. +47 22 36 13 38    Fax +47 22 36 13 84
                    Internet: Dag.Danielsen@scala.no





Amiga9.iff:
----------

						Presentation of Jeff Frank

Good afternoon Ladies and Gentlemen. My name is Jeff Frank and I have been
retained by Amiga Technologies GmbH to provide technical assistance with
respect to Engineering and Manufacturing Amiga related products.
Previously, I have been with Commodore International Ltd. for nearly nine
years, primarily as Director of Engineering.

I am sure you are all as happy as I to hear that the "Amiga" is indeed
alive and well!

Initially, most of our labors will be focused on resuming production of the
A4000 Tower and A1200 class products. In fact, the A4000 Tower will be much
like a new product introduction, considering that Commodore only ever built
1000 units. The A4000 Tower and A1200 will feature the AmigaDOS 3.1
Operating System which was not in wide release prior to Commodore's demise.
We will also pursue both tactical and strategic enhancements to the Amiga
product line over the months and years to come.

Tactically, our first and perhaps the most obvious enhancement will be a
68060 processor upgrade to the A4000 Tower. We also believe that a
performance upgrade to the A1200 by moving from an EC020 to an EC030
processor as well as built-in support for fast RAM capability is a logical
step.

Strategically, we are looking into creating "Encapsulated Amiga
Environments" or Emulations for the IBM and Apple environments. Also,
potential ports of AmigaDOS to non-Amiga platforms will be assessed. We
feel that this is a way we may help the Amiga Technology to permeate other
Computing Environments. We will also consider merging architectures of
available RISC technologies and the Amiga technology.


Amiga10.iff:
-----------

Dr Peter Kittel, Amiga Technologies GmbH

Ladies and Gentlemen,

As Head of the Product Planning Group of the new Amiga Technologies GmbH, I
would like to give you an overview about the past and the technical future
in our view.

The company Commodore started in 1958 as a typewriter repair company
followed by production of electric typewriters, digital watches,
calculators and video games. In 1977, there was launched one of the first
real desktop computers, the legendary PET 2001. It was followed by the CBM
series, where the CBM 8032 dominated the German bureau market in 1980 and
the following years, just before the breakthrough of the IBM PC. These 8000
series had a reputation of being especially easy to use and to program and
being robust.

Simultaneously, Commodore started the Home Computer market in 1981 with the
VIC 20, soon followed by the C64. The C64 became the top-selling computer
ever, its success and sold number is again only comparable to the
Volkswagen beetle. In this way, Commodore had generated two different
markets which complemented each other nicely.

The year 1985 brought great news. In spring, Commodore introduced the
IBM-compatible PC 10, and in July in New York during a gala show the Amiga.

- The PC 10 succeeded to carry on the advantages of the 8000 series and at
least in Europe to increase the professional reputation.

- The Amiga was far ahead of its time with its graphics and sound
capabilities and got an euphoric reception by the computer press. From its
first days software and hardware vendors exploited the special capabilities
of the Amiga to display graphics, or also animated graphics, all
accompanied by synchronized sound. Only later the term "Multimedia" was
invented for this, the Amiga did it from day one.

The special capabilities of the Amiga are due to two aspects, its special
hardware - the Custom Chips with the familiar names Paula, Agnus and Denis -
and on the other hand its Operating System. Looking back, one can only
admire how well suited for the future this unique operating system was
designed in the early 80's. As a result it offers still unmatched
multitasking ability. The Amiga reacts immediately on every user input and
wastes no time for administrative tasks. Typically you can run several big
applications in parallel, without noticing a slow down of any of them. This
all while the Amiga uses its resources like memory in RAM or on disk very
efficiently, so that it appears always faster through this aspect, and also
doesn't stress the wallet of its owner in regards of big RAM or hardisks. A
further feature of the Amiga is its video compatibility by using scan


Amiga11.iff:
-----------

frequencies typical for video, as well as its ability to get genlocked.
Every Amiga from the low-end to high-end provides this feature. Many video
and TV studios use the Amiga as an integral part of their equipment.

To show more concretely where the Amiga comes from, here is a picture of
the genius behind the Amiga Custom Chips, Jay Miner, who passed away last
year.

The breakthrough for the Amiga came in 1987, when the first Amiga 1000 was
followed by two successors, the Amiga 500 as a dedicated home computer and
the Amiga 2000 as a professional workplace computer. The A500 became
immediately the star of the home computer scene and dominated it for
several years, so that Commodore nearly gained a monopoly in this low-cost
market. On the other end, the A2000 featured the Open System Architecture,
so that add-on vendors could offer everything from an external video
digitizer to a turbo board with a bigger processor. One other unique Amiga
feature helped here, which is called "AutoConfig". You can just plug in
cards and don't need to bother for DIP switches or jumpers, a feature
that's only now slowly emerging as the "Plug&Play" also on PCs.

The year 1994 brought the breakdown of Commodore, after the financial
reserves had been exhausted by some fatal management decisions. The
liquidators tried to sell the company, but only in spring 1995, on the
auction of April 20th and 21st in New York, the German company ESCOM won
and took over Commodore completely.

Under the wing of ESCOM AG, Amiga Technologies GmbH will concentrate
exclusively on the Amiga, to restart its production and develop it further.

The current Amiga generation offers a full palette from the absolute
low-end - the multimedia game console CD32 - over the full-featured home
computer A1200 up to the high-end with the A4000 Tower. Concurrent
platforms try to state it as normal that you get a trade-off between
enhanced features and speed. But the Amiga shows that this has not to be
the case for a really modern operating system. The professionality of the
Amiga's video features shows up frequently in the recent past, in that
several TV series in USA are now produced completely on Amigas for their
video effect parts. Two examples are SeaQuest DSV and Babylon 5.

After the takeover the new company is conscious of the necessity to further
develop the Amiga platform, as the competition has not stood still. The new
Amiga company will therefore install an engineering division that can make
the transition into a new generation happen.

In the mid term future this will lead to stronger processors and otherwise
enhanced versions of the current models.

The big perspective for the future consists in a port of the Amiga
architecture to a RISC platform, to assure the awaited power for the
future. The very first task of this new engineering division



Amiga12.iff:
-----------

will be to prepare this decision. Which of the concurring RISC platforms
will be the optimum for the special case of the Amiga, is no trivial
decision. On one side, it is a goal to bring the Amiga nearer to the
"Mainstream", so that it becomes easier to port and run existing
application programs. On the other hand, the future computer should always
remain recognizable as an "Amiga" that is not assimilated among an
amorphous mass of similar computers. The Amiga once started with far
superior graphics and sound capabilities, and should by all means regain
this advantage.

To fulfill both requirements, there are currently two alternatives, the
PowerPC and the HP PA RISC. Both have advantages and disadvantages, and
they will get thoroughly judged.

Concurrent with this, the operating system will have to get adapted to this
new hardware platform, plus will adapt to new requirements like 3D
graphics, texture mapping, Object Oriented design and other current
technologies. This task will be not as difficult as some might suspect, as
we can build on a basis which was always designed with progress in mind.
Let's look forward to a great future of the Amiga architecture!




Amiga13.iff:
-----------
				[same as Amiga9.iff]


Amiga14.iff:
-----------
				[junk]

Amiga15.iff:
-----------

the multimedia world will allow. The Amiga technology brings us all we need
here in an elegant way. We see in the Amiga the key to Multimedia
technologies for the future.

As an intelligent terminal, you all know the PC. Many people use the PC in
conjuction with a modem to access online services and the worldwide
Internet. ESCOM is providing that market with a wide palette of
advantageously priced Multimedia PCs in a range between 2000 and 3000 DM.

But there are other user profiles, who want to use the multimedia
technology without having to spend several thousands of DM. For these
users, the Amiga represents a very interesting alternative. It stands out
with an amazing price/quality ration. Also remarkable is the operating
system with a still unmatched multitasking ability. That means that several
applications can run simultaneously, depending on available memory without
slowing down the whole system. This is achieved by smart resource sharing
and the low consumption of RAM and processing power by the applications.

The Amiga operating system needs 8 times less memory than Windows, and it
multitasks better than Windows. Through this smart use of system
resources,the Amiga is still a very efficient and inexpensive computer.

Video is another strength of the Amiga. In this aspect, the Amiga is
superior to the PC. The video output of the Amiga is already PAL



Amiga16.iff:
-----------
				[same as Amiga15.iff]



Amiga17.iff:
-----------

and NTSC compatible, so it can just be plugged into a TV or any video
monitor. A PC needs a conveter to do this. The Amiga represents a
possibility to give people access to interactive television online services
and pay TV with set top boxes at decent prices like 400 DM. The market is
huge because there are much more televisions than computers in the homes.

The set top box is a concrete application involving Amiga technology that
we want to improve. For the Americal market, which is much more advanced
than in Europe in this regard, we already have licence agreements with our
partne VisCorp - our first licence by the way. We are willing to be very
flexible and open-minded regarding licensing of our technology. Amiga
developers and manufacturers shall have the chance to talk with us to
define partnerships or license agreements. Together, we will develop a wide
range of Amiga hardware and software. Our goal is a productive, open Amiga
technology. The example of VisCorp demonstrates it at best: we license
Amiga technology to people who want to integrate it in their own products. 
The press already talked about another partner, the Tianjun Family-Used
Multimedia Co. Ltd. They will build the lower range of Amiga computers and
revive the legendary Commodore 64 for the Chinese market.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have mainly talked about the Amiga. In New York,
we also took over another well known brand: Commodore. All of you surely
remember the good old Commodore 64 and its tremendous success in the early
eighties. It is still a 


Amiga18.iff:
-----------

famous episode in the home computer history that could be compared to the
Volkswagen Beetle. A recent study made by the German economic magazine DM
reveals that the name Commodore still has very high recognition. 93 percent
of all PC users know the trademark Commodore. Such a reputation is only
surpassed by IBM.

We will now separate Commodore and Amiga operations. Amiga will be the
multimedia range with Motorola processors and Commodore for Intel based
Personal Computers. We want to use all available and appropriate
distribution channels both for Commodore and Amiga: specialized retail
stores, warehouses and mail order services. The ESCOM subsidiaries are only
one of many possibilities.

Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that ESCOM, Commodore and Amiga will
become a success story. Look at the structure and competencies we have
built up in a short time.

Thank you.

The spoken word applies!



Amiga19.iff:
-----------

Petro Tyschtschenko

Ladies and gentlemen,

As the General manager of Amiga Technologies GmbH, I would like to welcome
you to the first press conference of our new company and also tell you how
much we appreciate your presence here.

At a spectacular auction five weeks ago in New York, ESCOM AG acquired the
rights to the intellectual property of the former Commodore company for 10
Mio $, including all trademarks, logos, products and licenses.

Since the day we succeeded in buying the Amiga technology, many people have
asked us how the future will look for their computer of choice. We got
floods of anxious faxes and letters to which we couldn't give an answer at
once because things were too early to comment. We will use the opportunity
we have now to talk you all of you and present the new ESCOM daughter
company, Amiga Technologies. Some leading developers of hardware and
software for the Amiga as well as some of our new licensing partners will
present themselves and their projects to us.

To clear up things from the beginning - and that's the point you are all
interested in - I want to make the commitment that we are determined to
resume production and also want to continue hardware and software
developmetn of what we believe is a superior technology. That's why we
created Amiga Technologies and we are now hiring the best and most capable
people to accomplish this.


Amiga20.iff:
-----------

For a successful Multimedia company like ESCOM, the Commodore Patents and
licenses concerning Amiga are considered the key to multimedia technology.
Mister Schmitt will say more about this later.

But let's concentrate on our immediate plans. As the director of Amiga
Technologies my first priority now is to resume production of Commodore and
Amiga computers and bring them on the market as soon as possible. For us,
this means September 1995.

I would also like to refer to Commodore computers, Pentium PCs, which will
be available in August this year. These will be fully loaded P75 and P100
multimedia PCs. They will be assembled in our own ESCOM facilities. We plan
to sell between 50,000 and 60,000 units before the end of this year. Let me
point out that the Commodore and Amiga operations will be separate. Amiga
Technologies will only take care of Amiga, whereas ESCOM will provide
Commodore PCs.

One month later, we will start producing the high-end multimedia Amiga
4000T. To succeed in keeping that tight schedule, we negotiated with well
known producers in Europe and Asia. For the selection of the manufacturing
partner, we will be empasizing the quality requirements.

Until the end of the year, we plan to produces enough machines to meet the
demand. These machines are already outsold in pre-orders. In October, the
production of the low-end A1200 will begin. We expect to ship enough units
as well as CD32 game consoles to meet the Christmas season demand. Please
give us more time to publish quantities.

The takeover of the inventory, which is mainly composed of spare parts, in
the UK and Germany is completed. The rumoured stocks of new Amigas ready to
be sold do 


Amiga21.iff:
-----------

not exist. For inventory in the Phillipines, we are currently negotiating
with the local trustees.

Ladies and gentlemen, the new Amiga Technology will now become the
operating center of an international Company held 100% by ESCOM AG. Our
headquarters in Bensheim will employ around 50 people for following tasks:
development, support to developers, resellers, end users, production
management, Marketing, PR and administration. We also took over the former
Commodore development center in Norristown, with its research and
developmetn facilities. Eduard Goff, former Vice President and General
Counsel at Commodore now leads that center. He will talk to you later. Our
developers are now working on the next generation RISC based Amigas as well
as on improving current models. Here, we are working in a tight partnership
with Scala and Motorola.

Amiga Technologies GmbH expects a turnover of 100 Mio DM in 1995, mainly
from the Christmas business with Amiga 1200, 4000 and CD32. Our monthly
expenses are evaluated at around 600,000 DM. The break-even point should be
reached this year. We are confident that we will have rentabilized our 10
Mio $ investment by spring 1996 with Amiga sales and licences.

I will be here again for further questions later this afternoon, but now
let me introduce M Manfred Schmitt, Chairman of the executive board at
ESCOM. 

Thank you.

The spoken word applies!


Amiga22.iff:
-----------

Speech for ESCOM: new Commodore & AMIGA

Prof. Dr. Hartmut Esslinger / frogdesign, Thu, May 25, 1995 Page 1

Good afternoon Ladies and Gentlemen,

The 70's were the decade of marketing
the 80's were the decade of finance
the 90's will be the decade of design

Business Week Magazine 1990

Reading this quote from Business Magazine, New York, one may be inclined to
look at design like a magic medicine. I feel that the prominence of design
today has more to do with market reality. Today, basically great production
and functional quality is plentiful technical performance is exchangeable,
be it computers, automobiles, TVs, clothing - basically it's all the same,
the markets and product-features are transparent like glass-houses, the
customer knows nearly everything, even the margins lay in the open, there
is no feature the competition doesn't have very soon too, no major
mechanical differentiation has been left in High-Tech. Except innovative
human culture adopting products to people's specific needs - especially
emotional ones, DESIGN, Integrated Strategic Design to be precise.

Our own market research shows us, that in the field of TEDology products,
(Richard Wurman: Technology-Entertainment-Design as the new global
industry)

* 10 years ago, 4 in 5 potential customers looked at technology and price
  and only 2 in 5 cared for design, ease of use and ergonomics.

* Today 4 in 5 potential customers make a buying decision based upon design
  but they also expect the price to be about 30 percent lower than the 
  "elite-design target-group" would have accepted 10 years ago.

Design however is not defined by qualified esthetics alone, some people
list design as a visible principle of quality, some people define design
still as a matter of prestige, and some just look at the level of
excitement design will provide. Design is becoming different, democratic,
open, free. Design is reflecting our open society: many dreams, many ideas,
many truths. With design being considered a popular issue,


Amiga23.iff:
-----------

no artificial add-on is considered competent anymore, no stylistic
exclusion of the masses for the benefit for an elite will be tolerated.
DESIGN is requested, feasible and available in what Alvin Toffler calls the
"individual mass product".

We all know what Commodore and Amiga meant as high-tech brands: Commodore
was an affordable way to get into personal computing, the first Amiga
machine actually was created just one mile off my house in Los Gatos - and
personally I know some people who created the machine very well. But for
some not so trivial reasons, the brands were managed out of the market.

Now - after ESCOM acquired them - NOW

* what will happen to the legendary brands?
* what will be the future products ?
* how will they look and feel ?
* to whom will they appeal ?
* and will there be a new legend ?

We have set you three goals:

Our new products will emerge from what Richard Wurman calls TEDology, or
what Nicholas Negroponte calls the new domaine of "creative digital life"

* Technology
  we will apply the best of Microsoft / Intel
  we will apply the best of Macintosh / PowerPC
  we will apply the hottest Technology in Games
  and we will apply the newest in Digital Television, Audio and Video.

* Entertainment
  the new Commodore and Amiga products will be accessible by innovative and
  cultural software-interface solutions, which will be easy-to-use and
  powerful tools. I personally feel that our new products will create a new
  standard for people-oriented high-tech consumer products.


Amiga24.iff:
-----------

* Design
  our new products will be high-tech fashion statements, some will appeal 
  to young people, as statements of a new culture, some will appeal to 
  women, emotional and elegant, some will appeal to power-hungry web-
  surfers, some will appeal to machine-crazies, we will introduce color on
  a bigger scale and we will create the opportunity of
  design-customization.

As we just started to conceptualise and design the new product lines, I
cannot show you anything concise or descriptive at this time, I only can
explain our "way of design" a little bit and illustrate it with some
examples:

* historic frogdesign breakthroughs, which were then assumptions of the
future or became huge successes, changing high-tech into high-fashion.

and as I am also a teacher,

* the waystudents look at the future, they will live in as designers soon
too.

But you will not feel left out completely,

* because at the end of my short presentation, I will show you the new
brand identities of Commodore and Amiga and one short 3 second peek into
the design-work under way.

Let me also remark shortly on the new way of doing business in computing,
(which since about 20 years is at the center of my professional life):
a life life it myself now for more than 20 years:

* it is very competitive, but due to standards it's based on WIN-WIN
* it is about working together, respecting people and nature
* it is about building alliances rather than destructing common ground




Amiga25.iff:
-----------

Bernard van Tienen
Commodore Press Conference
Frankfurt 30 May 1995

Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.

I'm delighted by today's announcement and confident of the significant
benefits that it brings to customers of Commodore, to our employees and, of
course, to our new larger company.

I'd like to talk to you about how we are going to distribute Commodore
products, and by that I mean both the Commodore Intel Pentium and the Amiga
Motorola based computers.

Distribution will be centralised in the Netherlands, where Commodore is
based. Commodore products will be distributed in Europe, whereas Amiga will
be worldwide distributed. However, we are already in the process of
recruiting distributors for the Amiga range, and I'm sure we'll be able to
give you more details on this at a later date.

In Europe will be three main channels of distribution.

The first through retail via computer retail chains, brown goods chains,
department stores and mail order companies.

The second through a limited number of key distributors, the number will of
course depend on the country and type of distributor involved. And thirdly,
for Amiga products only, through a range of specialists distributors
targeting the vertical markets of high-ennd Amiga products.

With our distribution in place, what can our customers and our distributors
expect from Commodore?

Commodore's success will be based on the three principles: price
competitiveness, sales & marketing support and service.


Amiga26.iff:
-----------

When it comes to price, Commodore will benefit of the purchasing power of
the Group. Commodore will offer its retailers and distributors a full range
of sales & marketing support. Commodore will implement a Europe-wide
training programme for distributors and sales staff, to promote a high
level of technical and product knowledge that will equip them to deliver
the best advice to customers.

Good after-sales service is equally vital to Commodore's customers. As part
of our philosophy to make things as easy as possible for them, we introduce
a range of service options. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, we will
provide clear channels of distribution for Commodore and with them an
unrivalled package of price, support and service. We will make a success of
the still strong Commodore and Amiga brands.


Bernard van Tienen
Member of the Executive Board
ESCOM AG

Bernard van Tienen is member of the executive board for ESCOM AG with
responsibility for worldwide purchasing, ESCOM UK, Scandinavia, Belgium and
The Netherlands.

Before joining ESCOM, van Tienen founded a PC retail chain with 32 shops in
The Netherlands, now part of the ESCOM group. Prior to this, van Tienen was
Vice President of Commodore International and Divisional Director of
Olivetti.

Following today's (30 May 1995) announcement, van Tienen is also
responsible for the distribution of Commodore and Amiga products.


