[3mFrom: Ian Stedman <Ian.Stedman@zoom.co.uk>
To: Amiga-Hacks@onelist.com
Date: Wed, 29 Dec 1999 20:12:12 +0100
Subject: Re: Aminet Hacks
[23m
Hi all,

I have tried a few hacks of Aminet over the last couple of years and have
had mixed results. A short summary of what I have tried is below. I have
notes that I made whilst making them that I can supply if you wish. See
hard/hack  EPIC13.lha

1)    EPIC & PC Keyboard hack. Using a PIC 16C84 or 16F84, I have connected
a PC keyboard to a CD 32. No problems with thae hardware, I had to re-work
the EPIC software though. I will upload the update soon.

2)     Teletext decoder available from hard/hack    tt120.lha & 
                                       hard/driver  videotext.lha
    Using the hardware from the tt120.lha archive I built a PCB and after a
bit of fiddling I got it to work. You can use the software from either
package, they both work fine. I prefer the Videotext one personally. Note,
you need a VCr for the SCART teletext feed.

3)     PC Analogue joystick adapter.  hard/hack  Joyproject20.lha I think.

    I bought an adapter a few years back but I believe this archive has the
details of the pin-out needed to adapt the PC Joystick.

4)     EMPIC. dev/cross    EMPIC_13c.lha    
        Another PIC programmer, this one uses the Joystick port. It has more
complex hardware, but it is quick. I do not use this now as my current
machine, a CD32/ SX32 is incompatible with it :( It also includes an
assembler.

Other things to look at.

Has anyone looked at the A1200 hardware info files in hard/misc? There are 9
LHA files that pertain to have info on the A1200. I will download tonight
and check.

I also have an A1200 hardware document that explains the system bus and some
outline info on interfacing to it. It is in Final writer format at the
moment but I can convert it.

There are also hack based around PICs to adapt PC mice to the Amiga but I
have not tried them. 

What about PC-drive interfacing hacks? I have to Amitek disk drives, both
are adapted PC drives and all they use for the adapter is a simple 16V8 or
22V10 PLD. Could we not develop something like this for a hardware hack?
There are PAL programmers for the PC, I have not seen one for the Amiga.

What hardware hacks would people like to see?

-----------------------------------------------------------
Sent by Ian Stedman
No computers were seriously harmed in the creation of this e-mail. I only
swore at the F*&$ing thing!

