Amiga Arena Interview

*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

I'm Maxime Gamboni, a 19 year old student in Computer Science at the EPFL Lausanne.
I like programming, Music, Maths, Physics, ..
And I write Amiga software for my pleasure :-)

*Since when did you Start to Work with the Amiga?
I've had an Amiga for around thirteen years, after a C64, and had my first
touch of programming around eleven years ago. Started "serious" programming
around six years ago.

*Which Amiga Model have you got?
A4000T, 68060, cgx 64/3d

*Which Amiga OS Version is used by you?
OS3.5

*Which Software do you develope?
Scientific related software (Convertor, picFX),
and a generic development environment (AlMuist's)
are my current projects.
There are some older stuff I'm not touching anymore, like Birdie Prefs or Circuit.
All can be acquired freely (with full source code) on Aminet.

*Would you continue Developing  your Software?
Sure, as long as I find it interesting, and that there are some other users.
I do not do this hoping to get money, I just code on Amiga because I like it.

*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?
Not really. Some users sometimes discover a problem, and just wait hoping to see it corrected,
which will never happen if I don't see the problem myself and nobody tells me about.
Something that annoys me a little is also that I have sometimes coded something I was not at all
interested in, just because somebody asked me to do it, and once I am over with it, I usually
do not get a single thank you message or even an acknowledgment where they would say they got
my message...

*Would you Develope your Software for the AmigaOne?
It depends. What is pretty sure anyway is that I won't code software for a system I don't have.
For instance I don't want to code for ppc if it requires me work, as I don't have it.

*Would you change to the New Amiga?
Again, I can't tell. If it turns out that it is worth it, ie software is being written for it,
other users switch to it, it offers enough new features.

*When have you used your Amiga at last?
One week ago

*Which was your latest Soft/Hardware Product you bought?
os3.5 and T0 were the latest products I bought, not counting the Aminet cds.
The latest hardware I acquired was my cyberstorm '060, but this was quite a long time ago

*Which Software do you use on your Amiga?
Mainly texteditors [ged], wordprocessors [wordworth], and gfx packages [brillance, adpro (and picFX)]
Sometimes also studio16, the prog that allows me to record music from my

*Which Soft/Hardware would you buy in the Future?
I don't know. I might buy some accelerator card if one gets available.
Concerning software, I can't tell, but it will probably be some scientific/art/dev software.
And games, of course :-)

*Do you belive on the Amiga comeback?
I do not believe that the Amiga computer will get back the popularity it had before Commo's
bankrupcy, but it might get some popular "alternative" system, although I doubt it.

*Thank you for your Answer!
Thanks for showing interest into my software


(c) Amiga Arena 2000
