Amiga Arena Interview


*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

My name is Stefan Blixth, I'm a 23 years old (born 1977) a student from
Karlstad, Sweden. I'm currently studies electrical engineering at University
of Karlstad (www.kau.se). At the moment I have a summer job as a JAVA-
programmer at Telia Mobile AB.

I have been using Amiga computers exclusively for 9 years now (no PC in sight) :-)
And before the Amiga days I was a huge Commodore 64 fanatic (87/88).


*Since did you Start to Work with the Amiga?

It all began 89/90, when I got so fascinated by a friends Amiga500 I just had
to have one :-), but I didn't get an own one before 1991.

I still remember the great feeling I got when I first heard my Amiga speak
through "say" and since that moment I'm totaly dedicated the Amiga.


*Which Amiga Modell have you got?

My primary machine is a Amiga4000T filled with a lot of stuff like
CSPPC, CVPPC, CV3D+scandoubler, Emplant Deluxe, MultiFace III, X-Surf
+ a lot of memory and diskspace...

The second machine is a A1200T with a borrowed Apollo 040 card, this is just
a spare machine, just in case my A4k would die.

And I have a really crappy A3000 which I have just in case the second
machine would say "goodbye" :-)

I have had a lot of other Amigas before, but these are the current machines...


*Which Amiga OS Version is used by you?

I use AmigaOS 3.5 in conjunction with DirectoryOpus MagellanII (WBR),
This is the best combination I found on any platform so faar :)


*Which Software Develope you?

I have developed many things, but not so much of it has been presented
to the public. Some "highlights" are BookCon, OnyxBase and QuickNote
but I have a lot more stuff going on right now which I intend to make
public very soon (watch our homepage : www.onyxsoft.nu).


*Would you continue Develope for your Software?

Absolutely, as long as people seems to like my work I will continue
and judgeing about the feedback I got from my work I have still alot
to give :-) It's a pure hobby and I really like it so I will continue
this for many many years if not any drastical happens.


*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?

Yes, lately I got a "wave" of letters concerning the latest release of 
QuickNote, lots of good suggestion that will be implemented when I find
the time for it. I have got pretty much registrations for OnyxBase too
considered that it's been a while since it was updated, but registrations
keeps coming in :-) I'm more than pleased.


*Would you Develope your Software for the AmigaOne?

Only if I can get it to work on LinuxPPC or native under the Amiga.
(I won't buy a Peecee to be able to develop, that's for sure...)


*Would you change to the New Amiga?

I'm a die-hard (classic) Amigan to the heart so it would be very hard
for me to change, I have to see the new system before I can make such
decision.


*When have you used your Amiga at last?

Every day, I'm a real Amigaholic :-)


*Which was your last Soft/Hardware Product you buy?

The latest commercial software I bought must have been PhotoFolio 2
(great software BTW) and on the hardware side it's a tie between my
CyberVisionPPC and X-Surf card...


*Which Software used you on you Amiga?

I use a lot of internet software and different development tools.
Very few games (I don't like games anymore).
I'm a fan of emulators so that is very frequently used on my computer.


*Which Soft/Hardware would you buy in the Future?

I can think of lots of stuff I want when it becomes available, such
as MorpOS, FusionPPC (allready preordered) to name a few...
In the hardware section it might be nice to have a AmiJoe-card for
my A1200 when it becomes available and a Mediator PCI-bridge, well
we have to see what the future brings...


*Do you belive on the Amiga comeback?

Yes, if Amiga Inc. can realize their ideas and it gets a lot of support, sure...
I even think that the classic Amiga can make something of a comeback trough 
the BoXeR and all new exiting stuff that soon being available
such as PCI-bridges and G3 cards. (But there must happen something quickly).


Thank you for your Answer!

(c) Amiga Arena 2000
