Amiga Arena Interview

*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

Hello, my name is Sebastian Jedruszkiewicz, I am 26 male from Poland.
I have just finished Technical University in Szczecin and I am now
a specialist in computer graphics and multimedia. Currently I am
employed as Java programmer in Bellstream, small but growing fast
firm focused on Internet technologies.

*Since did you Start to Work with the Amiga?
1983 +- one year. I was in high school, and I've bought
A500, and a green monochrome monitor.

*Which Amiga Modell have you got?

A1200 BlizzardPPC (040/25+603/200) BVisionPPC.
All in a very nice PC big tower ;)

*Which Amiga OS Version is used by you?
3.0

*Which Software Develope you?
In a past I used to make demos. But this is a closed period of 
my life. Right now I am mostly working on Frogger, an mpeg video
player. I am also working on VisionFX, a set of PPC modules for 
ImageFX. Unfortunally I got not enough time to make new release 
(last version was released almost a year ago). I am also helping 
a bit my friend  Jacek Cybularczyk with YaQuZa, a PSX emulator 
for PPC amigas. This is actually very interesting project, as 
we expect to have emulator which would be able to run psx games 
at decent speed (80-90% of real psx).

*Would you continue Develope for your Software?
Yes, as long as I will have enough time for that.

*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?
Yes, I think the response was quite good. I know of course that
I wont make billion of dolars on Amiga programs. But there was
enough registration to keep my in front of screen for another couple
of months.

*Would you Develope your Software for the AmigaOne?
Maybe. I can not afford pc computer to install SDK on it.
I will maybe buy SDK, if there will be LinuxPPC version.
Right now I dont care about it.

*Would you change to the New Amiga?
I dont know. I will see how much it will cost.

*When have you used your Amiga at last?
I am using it right now. My Amiga is turned off almost
all day, I am using it also for work projects - I have 
a LinuxPPC and Java environmwent installed on top of it.

*Which was your last Soft/Hardware Product you buy?
Amiga Developer CD. Hardware: new HardDisk, old one
refused to work after 4 years of extensive use.

*Which Software used you on you Amiga?
mostly CED and compilers (GCC and SASC), YAM for emails.
My whole HD is filled up with sources and docs, there is
no space left for other programs.

*Which Soft/Hardware would you buy in the Future?
Software - I have to buy a browser, because I do not have any
regged soft on amiga side. On the other hand Netscape on Linux
works just fine ;) Hardware - I was thinking of a4000 and CSPPC,
but I do not have enough money right now.

*Do you belive on the Amiga comeback?
I hope so.


(c) Amiga Arena 2000

