From: Thies Edeling <blahh@xs4all.nl)
Subject: RFD: comp.sys.amiga.demos
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,alt.sys.amiga.demos,alt.amiga.demos,comp,comp.sys.amiga.announce,comp.sys.amiga.graphics,comp.sys.amiga.misc,comp.sys.amiga.games,comp.sys.amiga.cd32,comp.sys.amiga.hardware,comp.sys.amiga.audio,comp.sys.amiga.programmer,de.comp.sys.amiga.misc,comp.sys.amiga

                     REQUEST FOR DISCUSSION (RFD)
                   unmoderated comp.sys.amiga.demos

Newsgroup line:
comp.sys.amiga.demos		All aspects of the Amiga demo-scene

This is a formal Request For Discussion (RFD) for the creation of a
world-wide unmoderated Usenet newsgroup comp.sys.amiga.demos.
This is not a Call for Votes (CFV); you cannot vote at this time.
Procedural details are below.

We are proposing to turn the alt.sys.amiga.demos and the
alt.amiga.demos newsgroup into comp.sys.amiga.demos.
The group will be unmoderated.

To participate in the discussion, follow the discussion in news.groups.

RATIONALE: comp.sys.amiga.demos

There currently are two forums existing on the major commercial
online services that relate to the Amiga demo-scene.  These two
groups (alt.amiga.demos and alt.sys.amiga.demos) are both extremely
spammed lately. Therefore we propose to create a new newsgroup,
to annihilate the spamming (comp.* groups are less noisy than
alt.* groups) and thereby joining the two existing groups into one
new group.

The proposed group will establish a central location where all
persons interested in the Amiga demo-scene or Amiga demos in general
can meet without limitations based upon which commercial online service
or other internet service provider they utilise for access.

CHARTER: comp.sys.amiga.demos

Expected topics of discussion include (but are not limited to):
 - latest demos released;
 - discussion of old and "classic" demos
 - coding-tricks;
 - anything relating to "scene" demos, but not game demos;

A FAQ file is already developed to prevent getting the same
questions asked over and over again.

The newsgroup will be unmoderated.

Commercial postings are not welcome as the group has proposed aims
for the Amiga demo-scene and not demos from games.

Binary files in any form are prohibited. However a posting may
include a reference to an URL or FTP pointing to such binary files.

END CHARTER.

PROCEDURE:

This is a request for discussion, not a call for votes.  In this phase
of the process, any potential problems with the proposed newsgroups
should be raised and resolved.  The discussion period will continue
for a minimum of 21 days (starting from when the first RFD for this
proposal is posted to news.announce.newgroups), after which a Call For
Votes (CFV) may be posted by a neutral vote taker if the discussion
warrants it.  Please do not attempt to vote until this happens.

All discussion of this proposal should be posted to news.groups.

This RFD attempts to comply fully with the Usenet newsgroup creation
guidelines outlined in "How to Create a New Usenet Newsgroup" and "How
to Format and Submit a New Group Proposal".  Please refer to these
documents (available in news.announce.newgroups) if you have any
questions about the process.

DISTRIBUTION:
news.announce.newgroups, news.groups
alt.sys.amiga.demos,     alt.amiga.demos,
comp.sys.amiga.announce, comp.sys.amiga.graphics,
comp.sys.amiga.misc,     comp.sys.amiga.games,
comp.sys.amiga.cd32,     comp.sys.amiga.hardware,
comp.sys.amiga.audio,    comp.sys.amiga.programmer,
de.comp.sys.amiga.misc,  comp.sys.amiga

and the following URL:
   http://www.xs4all.nl/~blahh/RFD_csad.html

and the following FTP-sites:
   ftp://ftp.uu.net/usenet/news.announce.newsgroups/comp/comp.sys.amiga.demos
   ftp://i41s20.ira.uka.de/pub/text/RFD_csad.txt
   AmiNet FTP-mirrors as docs/anno/RFD_csad.lha

Proponents:
Thies Edeling aka I-GO/TBL <blahh@xs4all.nl>
Dean Ryan                  <crash@tcp.co.uk>
