Amiga Arena Interview
---------------------

with James daniels the developer from Payback!


*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

Hi, I'm James Daniels, the founder of Apex Designs.
I'm 23 years old and live near Banbury, England.

*Since did you start to work with the Amiga?

I released my first game (6-Tris) on the Internet in 1996.
It was a fun 6 player public domain Tetris game written in AMOS.
I've also released other PD games such as Frontal Assault and Fire Power.
I actually started working on the Amiga several years before that
and wrote many more AMOS games but, to be honest,
they weren't very good so I haven't released them.
Payback, which I started in late 1998, was my first C project.

*What Amiga Modell do you own?

A1200T with a 603e/240, 040/25, BVision, 96 MB RAM and 45 GB HD space.

*What Version of the OS is running on your Computer?

OS3.5

*Which Software Develope you?

Payback, Frontal Assault, Fire Power, 6-Tris.

*Can you tell us what your software is about?

In Payback you play a criminal and your objective is to earn enough money
to impress your boss enough to move onto the next level.
The player has complete freedom of movement and so it is
possible to complete the game without finishing a single mission.
Of course, the missions are extremely varied
(everything from stealing experimental rocket cars to escaping from jail)
so there's no reason you'd want to avoid them,
but the option is there. There's also a large armory at your disposal
(flamethrowers, miniguns, grenades and more) and
you get bonuses for performing particularly malicious acts -
running someone over with their own car gives you the "Irony Bonus", for example.

*What created the idea in you to continue developing your software?

I'd always intended to add PPC support to the game which was the main reason for releasing the updates.
I had all sorts of problems getting hold of working PPC hardware so whilst
I was searching I added all sorts of new features to the game and released several updates.

*How long took the development up to now?

Roughly 3 years.

*What software are you using?

StormC 4 GCC, PhotogenicsNG, GoldED and PPaint mainly.

*For what system are you developing?

Amiga 68k and PPC.

*Would you support the "Amiga One"?

My understanding is that all existing WarpOS software will work fine on the AmigaOne
so I don't think there's any need for me to 'support' it.

*What can we expect from future versions?

Update 6 will include a few minor but useful features such as allowing the user
to add vehicles to custom maps in multiplayer and rampage mode,
as well as adding a scoreboard to rampage mode.

*Don't you lose the fun and interest in developing when
you see the small amount of feedback and money you get
from the small Amiga market?

I get plenty of feedback, but the lack of money is disheartening.
I simply cannot afford to continue to develop on the Amiga unless sales improve. :(

*Get you enough Feedback for you Software?

Yes, plenty.

*When did you use your Amiga for the last time?

I'm using it now!

* What software have you bought for your Amiga last time?

The software I bought most recently was StormC 4.

* What software do you use till today?

I couldn't possibly list every piece of software I've ever used - it's probably in the thousands!

* What soft/-hardware are you planning to buy?

I might buy an AmigaOne if it is successful.

* Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

I think AmigaDE will probably be successful, although I'm not so sure about the AmigaOne.
I certainly hope so though!

Thank you for your Answer!

(c) 10/2001 Amiga Arena

