Amiga Arena Interview mit Janne Jalkane developer from PPT!
-----------------------------------------------------------

*Hello, would you please introduce yourself to the readers of Amiga Arena?

I'm a 31-year old MSc in Physics and Licentiate of Technology in
Computer Sciences.  I'm currently working with Regex, a small company
that provides Java consultancy to other companies.  I like penguins.

*How did you get to the Amiga?

I've owned an Amiga since the first A500 came out.  I even still have
it - it was imported from Germany and had the QWERTZ keyboard,
confusing me to no end =).

*Since when have you been an Amiga user?

Um.  I believe that's what... 1987, I believe.

*Which Amiga do you own?

I currently still own the old A500 and an A4000, spiced up with a
CyberStorm 060, and CyberVision 3D card.

*Which OS version is running on your Amiga?

OS 3.5 and AmigaDE (on my PC).

*Which software are you developing?

I have developed PPT, an image processing program, available at
http://www.iki.fi/%7ejalkanen/PPT.html

*How did you first get the idea for developing PPT?

It was originally a school project.  I studied signal processing, and I
needed a tool to do some experimenting with.  PPT grew out of that.  I
started the development a few weeks before ImageStudio came out.

*Please tell us some peculiarities of PPT!

Multi-tasking, plugin-based... All the usual buzzwords.

*How long did the development take?

Probably around five years.

*Which software did you use for that?

SAS/C, some GNU C.  As an editor I used GoldED first, GNU Emacs later
on.  Project management through RCS and SMake.

*Will there be further updates etc.?

The development of PPT has been pretty much halted since early 2000,
when I turned "pro", so to say.  When you program during the day, you
sort of lose some of the drive that is needed to write PD software.
Also, the user community seemed to die down around that same time.
The only questions about PPT I seem to receive these days are people
who have received Powerpoint attachments and they have no clue how to
open them...

*Will you port your software to "AmigaOne"?

Perhaps.  Or if someone else wanted to do it, I'd be happy to help.
PPT could use a serious rewrite, though =).

*Will you switch to the "AmigaOne"?

I already have a laptop, a PDA, two desktop computers (one Amiga,
one Linux) and a firewall 486.  I'm already too confused =).

*Don't you lose the fun developing when you see how little this is
still being honoured in the Amiga marketplace?

That is a hard question.  I believe a part of the answer is that most
people who developed actively for the Amiga ten years ago, have now
real jobs, families, etc. and have thus difficulty finding the time to
do software development.  And the user base is already very small, so
developing new applications is like shouting inside an empty hall:
nobody really cares.

*Will you support further Amiga OS versions?

If AmigaDE counts as a new version of AmigaOS, then yes.  I believe
the AmigaDE has a very strong concept, and it is an interesting
environment to develop for.  Though the documentation could be a lot
better :-)

*How do you as a developer see Amiga's future?

AmigaOS Classic is not likely to gain the foothold it had in previous
times.  It just does not have the niche to live in anymore.   It'll
live on as the "native" OS of the AmigaDE, though, but the real value
of AmigaDE is in its ability to provide a small footprint, horizontal
multimedia platform, that can be easily ported to different
platforms.  The value of AmigaOS as middleware is obvious =).

*When did you last use your Amiga?

A couple of weeks ago.

*What was the last software you bought for the Amiga?

Myst, a few years back.  A good game!   I've also purchased the
AmigaDE, and the Amiga Forever package from Cloanto.

*Which applications/games software do you still use today?

In my Amiga?  Pretty much nothing - my Linux box can unfortunately to
practically everything better now.

*Which soft/hardware are you planning to buy?

Nothing.

*Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

AmigaDE yes.  It'll be there, but it'll be invisible.  So there won't
be a desktop revolution with Amiga, but the Amiga will be in your
phone, in your PDA, in your set-top box, on your desktop, invisible,
hiding, but always providing the interesting stuff.  It's like the
web: most people don't care what it runs on, whether it's Linux or
Windows, Java or Visual Basic, WebSphere or IIS, IBM or Sun.  But all
those previous names are big and important.  Even if your average
person does not know what they are.

(c) By Amiga Arena 9/2001
