Amiga Arena Interview
---------------------

with Massimo Tantignone,developer from VPrefs!


*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!


Hello, I'm Massimo Tantignone. I became an Amiga user in 1986
when I bought an A1000, one of the very first that arrived
in Italy. The machine impressed me deeply for its graphic and
multitasking abilities. I began developing software for Amiga
immediately, at first using the bundled AmigaBASIC interpreter,
then (since 1987/88) exclusively in C.
I love programming my Amiga even more now than when I started,
but unfortunately I can find less and less free time to do so;
this is why, these days, my software gets updated so rarely.

*Since did you start to work with the Amiga?

As I said, in 1986. I wish I had one sooner, but they weren't
available in Italy before that date...

*What Amiga Modell do you own?

An A3000 desktop, bought in 1990. Yes, this Christmas will mark
its eleventh birthday! It still works splendidly as it did when
it was new (actually better, since I upgraded it in many ways).

I also still have my original A1000, and even a spare A3000,
just in case the unthinkable should happen :-)

Furthermore, I have a d'Amiga (development platform from Amiga
Inc. - really just a PC) which I'll soon "upgrade" by installing
AmigaOS XL on it.

*What Version of the OS is running on your Computer?

OS 3.1 and OS 3.9, on different partitions.

*Which Software Develope you?

My main project is VisualPrefs, a GUI enhancer. Whenever I can
find the time, I also develop FullPalette, WindowToFront, the
select.gadget, and other small utilities like TRAP.
The full list of my projects can be found on my web page.

In addition to the above, I also helped with some minor parts of
OS 3.9 and its first Boing Bag (the 1:1 aspect ratio patch, some
code contributions to ReAction classes, and the titlebar.image).

Lastly, I expect to develop software for AmigaOS 4.x once it is
released, and for the AmigaDE running on top of it, as soon as
time allows me to start new projects.

*Can you tell us what your software is about?

Well, I love doing GUI-related work, so most of my software is
about enhancing the Amiga GUI, both functionally and aesthetically.
I also like writing small system utilities which I usually don't
release to the general public, because they're too fine-tuned to
my own particular needs to be useful to anyone else.

*What created the idea in you to continue developing your software?

Nothing, that idea just came along all by itself ;-)

*How long took the development up to now?

VisualPrefs development: about 5 years now.
Amiga development in general: more than 15 years now.

*What software are you using?

SAS/C, and TurboText as a text editor.

*For what system are you developing?

Well, for the Amiga, of course. What else? ;-)

*Would you support the "Amiga One"?

Sure I would. In fact, I will...

*What can we expect from future versions?

Hmm, I'd like to know that, too :)

*Don't you lose the fun and interest in developing when
 you see the small amount of feedback and money you get
 from the small Amiga market?

No, because ultimately I'm not doing it for the feedback or for
the money, but just because I like programming in general, and
programming for AmigaOS in particular.

*Get you enough Feedback for you Software?

Let's put it this way, if I were to live on registration money
alone, I'd be dead since a long time ;-)
My only shareware product is VisualPrefs and for it I got less
than 400 registrations in 4 years, so you can see what I mean...
but I don't really care as I don't do this for the money, but
rather for the fun of programming the Amiga.
Feedback is good, although it is made up almost exclusively of
bug reports or enhancement requests. But I guess this is normal,
people tend to remain silent when they're already satisfied :)

*When did you use your Amiga for the last time?

Let's see... right about now, I'd say ;-)

* What software have you bought for your Amiga last time?

AmigaOS 3.5, Magellan II, CyberGraphX 4, and the latest Developer
CD. I have also bought the Amiga SDK and the Amiga Party Pack for
the AmigaDE, and registered a couple of shareware programs.

* What software do you use till today?

Other than the already mentioned SAS/C and TurboText, not much.
My favourite Internet applications are AWeb and Thor, although
I also bought IBrowse and Voyager. Then I have other programs
like Personal Paint, Wordworth, TurboCalc and TypeSmith, but
I rarely use them, as I simply lack the time.
The only games I played in the last six years: The Settlers
and Worms :)

* What soft/-hardware are you planning to buy?

I've just ordered AmigaOS XL, a new keyboard and a new mouse for
my A3000. I plan to buy the AmigaOne once it is available, and any
future release of AmigaOS.
If for any reasons the AmigaOne were not to happen (which I don't
think will be the case), I will consider other AmigaOS-compatible
solutions, since I'll need to buy a new machine eventually.
Furthermore, although I already got AmigaOS 3.9 for free as a
beta-tester, I intend to buy another copy as soon as I can, to
give some support to the Amiga market.

* Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

I have always believed in it, and I won't stop now for sure!
(... just like last year ;-)

* Thank you for your Answer!

You're welcome, again :)

Kind regards,
                                   Massimo Tantignone (tanti@intercom.it)
                                     [http://www.intercom.it/~amigaws]


(c) 11/2001 Amiga Arena

