07-Jul-2007


MODIFIED A3000 CASE RESTORES RELIABLE OPERATION

by,

 Ernest Unrau
 Morden, Manitoba
 CANADA

 Email: ejunrau@mts.net



DISCLAIMER: No warranty or liability is claimed or implied as to any modifications a user may carry out based on this description.

CAUTION: be sure to wear eye protection when cutting metal, especially when using cutting tools such as a Dremel and cutting disks. A cutting disk that breaks could send pieces flying that could result in injury. PROTECT YOUR EYES!!!


SCENARIO:

Experienced checksum errors with system requester warnings, especially when attempting extended backup copy sessions. Overnight backups would inevitably be interrupted by system requester warnings. Most of the errors appeared to be from the "read" drive and not the target drive -- one of two drives inside an A3000 desktop case. Lost a substantial amount of recent data on a day when things went particularly bad.

Hardware is an A3000 with A3640 accelerator running OS3.9 with updates. Other harddware is an X-Surf3cc with Subway USB card attached to X-Surf clockport. Both hard drives are IDE drives on a Buddha IDE controller. The boot drive, also the main work drive, is a 20 GB Maxtor while an 80 GB Western Digital serves as a backup storage. 

Notes:
  a)Each drive is configured as Master and each is on it's own port and connected with 80-wire IDE ribbon cable to its controller port;
  b)The Subway USB card was initially on the Buddha card's clockport, but was moved to the X-Surf clockport to see if that affected the problem. It didn't;
  c)The accelerator has a large, low-profile, passive heat sink on the cpu.


DIAGNOSIS:
Cause of checksum errors was traced to excessive heat on the accelerator's '040 cpu. This after much trial and error and email consultation with other knowledgeable Amigans. The cause was finally identified while running with the case open, when it was realized the cpu and heat sink were too hot to touch with a finger for more than three or four seconds ;^[

On impulse a salvaged 60mm case fan was set adjacent to the open case, the leads inserted into the unused floppy drive power connector's 12 volt lines and the air flow directed at the cpu and heat sink. Just the small amount of air from this low volume fan was sufficient to keep the cpu and heat sink cool.

Backup copies were again reliable.


SOLUTION:

a)Purchased new heat sink compound and applied generously to the cpu and heat sink mating surfaces. Heat sink clip bent to provide better hold-down pressure.

b)Modified A3000 case for better air flow in three ways:

    i)Cut air-flow slots on the chassis front panel;

   ii)Mounted two '486 cpu fans on the power supply deck and attached a shroud so the fans would better pull air from the cpu heat sink;

  iii)Cut an additional air hole to allow cool air to draw into the zorro slot area. This MAY receive an additional fan later, but there is a concern of overloading the 12-volt supply.


RESULT:

1) Extended backup copies now reliable.

2) The temperature above the heat sink at time of writing was running at two degrees Celsius above the ambient air temperature outside the case: heat sink temperature showed 25.9 deg C. with ambient temperature of 23.7 deg. C outside the case. The "outdoor" probe from a digital indoor-outdoor thermometer was inserted between the heat sink and the power supply deck to monitor temperature. After running for a lengthy period of time the temperature probe peaks at 28.5 deg C, but still running about 2 degrees above ambient temperature (the room temperature also rose). That's not even body temperature!!!


DISCUSSION:

In the OEM case, the A3000's accelerator slot is located under the power supply and hard drive deck where almost no air flow takes place. OEM case has a grill with slots in the face plate, but the chassis behind has no openings into the space below the deck.

The lower half of the power supply fan does extend below the deck and would draw air if there were adequate openings. The 3000's daughter board partitions off and almost totally isolates the left and right side of the case -- except for a small gap between the daughter board and the chassis front plate.

In theory the air should draw into the case from the rear of the zorro slot area, through the daughterboard gap at the front, then draw through both below and above the deck and then exhaust from the power supply fan.

That it does not draw adequate cooling air is evidenced by the fact the power supply fan draws dust and lint into and through the floppy drive. An air nozzle soon convinces the sceptic of that! Moreover, the air making its way through below the deck via this path fails to move the stagnant pocket of air in the accelerator area. The problem is compounded by the fact there is barely any clearance between the top of the accelerator's cpu heat sink and the power supply deck  ;^[ 

Two '386 cpu heat sink fans were purchased from a local supplier, mounted on the power supply deck just in front of the power supply. The fans come with connectors that couple between the hard drive power cables and the hard drive connector, and thereby tap into the 12-volt supply.

Using a dremel and cutting disks, slots were cut into the front panel of the chassis, below the line where the power supply desk is fastened. A hole was also cut in the front panel to allow air into the zorro slot area.



PHOTOS:

* Cool3000_0088_CaseProject.JPG

    View of disassembled chassis and cutting progress. Slots were cut into the front panel of the chassis, below the line where the power supply desk is fastened. Holes are cut in power supply deck for mounting the fans. A hole was also cut in the front panel to allow air into the zorro slot area. The holes were initially cut as quasi-hexagon openings, then a grinding wheel used to round out the openings.

* Cool3000_0090_Fans&Slots.JPG

    Reassembled deck with fans mounted.

* Cool3000_0091_FanShroud.JPG

    The fans were mounted on the underside of the deck. A shroud made of heavy card stock was also attached on the underside of the deck so that the twin fans would do a better job of drawing air away from the heat sink. Note that it's possible the main fan may draw sufficient air without requiring additional fans. This remains to be tested.


