Amiga Arena Interview
---------------------

with Chris Perver,developer from Evenmore!


*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

Hi everybody! My name is Chris Perver from Bangor, N. Ireland.
I'm 20 years old, and work as an IT technician for
a double glazing company in Belfast.

*Since did you start to work with the Amiga?

I've had one Amiga or another since 1990 or there
abouts (not sure exactly what year). I owned an Amstrad 464
and my freind down the road had a Spectrum 48k. We would
often go to each others houses to play games. Then one
day he got an Amiga 500, and of course, I was blown away
by the graphics, the first game he showed me was Lemmings.
I can remember thinking, the pixels were so small you could
hardly even see them! The sound was excellent too, and
games like Pinball Dreams, Lotus and Sensible Soccer
convinced me to get an Amiga. So I put an ad in the paper,
Super Nintendo - part exchange for Amiga 500. Eventually
I got the Amiga, and loved every minute using it.   

*What Amiga Modell do you own?

Since the Amiga 500, I have had an Amiga 600, 1200, and
3000, all which are no longer in use due to disrepair. 
Currently I am emulating through the Cloanto package and 
UAE, which is a good lot faster than even my 3000 was, 
which is great. Also, Amiga parts are expensive, and due 
to the fact that I work on PCs all day in my job, it is 
easier and less costly for me to use a PC.

*What Version of the OS is running on your Computer?

I bought OS3.5 for my Birthday last year, and also
Opus Magellan II, which I am running.

*Which Software Develope you?

A little freeware textviewer called EvenMore. 

*Can you tell us what your software is about?

Basically EvenMore displays text, with a nice
user-configurable interface.

*What created the idea in you to continue developing your software?

I develop EvenMore as a hobby, and the only benefit I
gain from it is the pleasure of having acheived something. Because
of that, I enjoy continuing to develop it.

*How long took the development up to now?

I have been developing EvenMore since 1996. 

*What software are you using?

Firstly, Cloanto's AmigaForever package, which is excellent and
very good value for money.
WinUAE - I remember people boasting on Amiga IRC channels that
PC's couldn't emulate Amiga's because they were too good.
I'm sure glad we were wrong. I wouldn't know what to do without emulation!
OS 3.5 - I got this to see what all the fuss was about, to be honest
I wasn't impressed :/
Opus Magellan II - This is an excellent program, of which I still
don't use to it's full potential!
All the standard patching utilities, MCP, VisualPrefs, MagicMenu, etc,
all, which without, Workbench would look very plain indeed. Thanks!
TurboText - A good text editor, which I use to program EvenMore.
AmigaE - Of course, which is now freeware. A powerful Amiga language with
an easy learning curve, with which EvenMore is written. Thanks Wouter!

That is actually about all I use on the Amiga side of things, since
I only really use it for programming now.

*For what system are you developing?

Classic Amiga, OS3.0+

*Would you support the "Amiga One"?

That is a big question. We've had so many let-downs in the past with
Escom and so on, I would be relunctant to jump on to any passing
band-wagon now. A couple of years ago, I thought that I would never
ditch my Amiga for a PC, even while company after company were dropping
out. I think any new system would need to be at least a good competitor
against PC, not only hardware and cost wise, but also software wise.
We need companies who are willing to develop decent software that will
be competitive with their PC equivalent, because there simply isn't the
userbase anymore to support companies who develop for the Amiga, because
probably every other Amigan owns a PC, and would sooner buy software for
their PC, because they know it will be of a higher standard.
If all these queries were met, and AmigaOne is established as the next 
generation Amiga (and you can buy it in the highstreet), then I would 
gladly develop for it.

*What can we expect from future versions?

Because EvenMore is a hobby, this is a difficult
question to answer, as I have no real idea of what I want
EvenMore to do or be like.
But there are a few things I would like EvenMore to do, which
I may eventually do, unless someone else beats me to it!

An HTML > text conversion plugin.
The ability to display pictures in the EvenMore window.
A plugin-able GUI for EvenMore.

The last two are nice ideas but a long way off.
   
*Don't you lose the fun and interest in developing when
you see the small amount of feedback and money you get
from the small Amiga market?

It certainly helps to have feedback, and I love to hear
from people who enjoy using the program, and want to return
thanks, it does encourage me an awful lot.
But EvenMore is freeware because the only thing that keeps me
going is the satisfaction of having acheived something, and
so feedback or none, I still enjoy developing it.

*Get you enough Feedback for you Software?

I have had a good number of people who have emailed me about
the program over the years, and I would like to thank them for
that. I can't really complain. Because EvenMore is a hobby,
any feedback is a bonus for me.

*When did you use your Amiga for the last time?

Probably about 6 months ago.

* What software have you bought for your Amiga last time?

OS 3.5 & Magellan II.

* What software do you use till today?

As above.

* What soft/-hardware are you planning to buy?

I am considering whether to buy Amithlon to run on my PC. 
Depends on the price, in relation to the performance against
WinUAE. 

* Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

I think that depends on Amiga INC. Every Amiga owner has been
believing for a comeback, and if it were down to us, we would
have had one. We've been let down so many times, who can blame
us for giving up hope. But clearly things are moving, and time
will tell what the result of it is. 

Thank you for your Answer!

Thankyou :)

(c) 10/2001 Amiga Arena
