Amiga Arena Interview with Nemeth Miklos
Developer from LangTools!

12.06.2001



*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!
I am 27 years old amiga fan from Budapest
(the Capital of Hungary).

*Since did you start to work with the Amiga?
Maybe 2 years ago, I started to make my first program.
This is Language Tools.
In my other free time, I like to make music.

*What Amiga Modell do you own?
An A1200 with Blizzard 1240/40 card,
16 mega fast RAM, Sony CDU-701 CD-ROM.

*What Version of the OS is running on your Computer?
AmigaOS 3.5. OS3.9 doesn't contains many new things,
that's what I didn't buy it.

*Which Software Develope you?
First, I started to work on Language Tools and DicHandle.
These are my full version softwares.
I made an AmigaE Project Manager, a GUI for AmigaE
programming language. And I have some other started projects.
These are in very alpha version. :)

*Can you tell us what Lang Tools is about?
Language Tools is multifunctional dictionary program.
Not only for document translators,
because it has a function to read simple texts,
and you can use as an AmigaGuide editor.
This software is for users who cannot speak other (english)
language and want to understand foreign languaged texts.

*What created the idea in you to continue developing the game?
LSDictionary. This is a simple dictionary program.
I'd like to see more features
in it, and that's why I start to develope LangTools.

*How long took the development up to now?
About 2 yeras, because I have many other thing to do.
And I started this work,as really beginner programmer.

*What software are you using?
For developing? AmigaE and VBCC.
I try to use freeware or cheap softwares,
because I have no much money to buy expensive stuffs.

*For what system are you developing?
Only on Amiga, but I'm thinking to buy a PC.
It depends on sales of Language Tools.

*What can we expect from future versions?
Wishes of users. Maybe I stop using TextEditor.mcc
and write an own customclass.

*Don't you lose the fun and interest in developing when
you see the small amount of feedback and money you get
from the small Amiga market?

Yes! But when I hear good things about my software, and someone buys,
it makes me strong and start again and again.

*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?
No! But I have to recognize, I didn't make enough advertisement.

*When did you use your Amiga for the last time?
When I'm developing and making some music.
I don't like to play with games.

* What software have you bought for your Amiga last time?
OS3.5. I try to use freeware softwares, like AmigaE, VBCC, YAM.

* What software do you use till today?
For the net: Miami, YAM, BlackIRC, AWeb.
For develope:  AmigaE, VBCC, PowerD.

* What soft/-hardware are you planning to buy?
An AmigaOne. Software? Hm... I'm only develope and make music.
Really don't know.

* Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?
It's a hard question. I hope Amiga will be

(c) Amiga Arena 2001
