17bit

1 SLIDESHOW DISK #1
Contains 31 IFF files in a slideshow format that also features some
great music.  Files on this disc are: Alien, Andy, Angel, Auburn,
Bees, Benz, Bloom, Cave Women, Copperstate, Cycles, Enter, Flight,
Hall, Horses, Jet Sabre, Lighttower, Moonscape, Odie, Opel GSI,
Paintcan, Porsche 1, Porsche 2, Porsche 3, Takeoff, Title, Titlescr,
Train, Tric, Venus, Warp 1. (Bootable disc) Mostly NTSC files that
will load into most popular art packages ie Dpaint series by
Electronic Arts.


2 SLIDESHOW DISK #2
The 2nd Slideshow consisting of 29 IFF files in sequence to some
music. Files are again IFF format and mostly NTSC format suitable for
loading into any of the usual art packages.  Files: Amigasys, Amoeba,
Background, Bike, Bloom, Bully, Daynight, Diamond Ring, Hospital,
Jumbodog, Larry, Maria, Mountain, Mau, Murial, Orphan 2, Orphan 3,
Parrot, Pie, Rearsafe, Roberta, Robot, Saturn, Saturn2, Superman,
Titlescreen, Token, Wet T Shirt, Wildcat.


3 SLIDESHOW DISK #3
This slideshow is a rolling show of stills from the Cinemaware game
`Rocket Ranger' released in 1988.  The sequence is accompanied by
some superb digitised music and the game itself in now way looks as
old as it now is, try this demo if you are interested in the game.


4 SLIDESHOW DISK #4
Another 24 pictures getting the slideshow treatment, most of these
are pictures converted from HAM (4096 colour) format down to standard
32 colour mode. The results of converting 4096 colour files to 32
colour files are not as bad as you would first think, as these very
good examples show.  Files: Bidonhorse, Brick, Butterfly, Checker,
Coffecup, Excalibur, Earth, F-15, Floral, Glass, Helen, Lady, Lambo,
Liberty, Lion, Litgirl, Lolly, Marble, Mars, Model T, Moon, Old Pa,
Room, RX7.


5 SLIDESHOW DISK #5
This slideshow is another series of low-res 32 colour piccies
suitable for grabbing as clip art etc from any paint package.  Files:
Alien, Aquarian, Archie, Blue Porsche, Earth, Football, Foxpuppy,
Knight 2, Moon, Moonscape, Odie, Ooh, Porsche 1, Sachs Castle, Saucer
Attack, Self Portrait, Shuttle, Snowscape, Space, Swamp, Title,
Trans#1, Trans#2, Wood.  Contains some excellent art by Sachs who was
responsible for the graphics in Defender of the Crown and the vastly
under-rated Ports Of Call.


6 PROBE DEMO
Perhaps one of the most popular discs ever to be placed in the
public-domain. (Certainly one of the most popular of our discs). This
shows an imaginary sequence recorded from a space craft as it
journeys into an uncharted region and onto a strange planet where
there have been reports of life.  An entertaining and interesting use
of digitised black & white graphics and created with The Director. No
sound.


7 RGB/FOCUS
There are another two demos created with The Director on this disc,
one of them RGB requires 1MEG to run and is a competition winner. RGB
is a humourous animation of the effects of the user from using a
VDU.. strange and very clever use of digitised graphics.  Focus is
another strange demo that applies an imaginary scientific rule to
random numbers with some weird results...


10 SLIDESHOW DISK #6
Another low-res NTSC slideshow including some more of Sachs`s
excellent work.  29 files: Abe, Alien, Castle, Dan, Eye, Fanplane,
Ferrari 225, Final Cut 4, Glowplug, Gorilla, Green Porsche, Honda
Accord, Hover Bubble, Iris, Jet Fighter, Jet Sabre, King Tut, Laser,
Lemur, Lost, Mazda, Ninja, Pistol, Ps


11 CAT/BARON/WIREFRAME
Another classic animation in the form of the Sullivan/Bluth CAT!  An
excellent digitised cat in a frame runs along as the frame rotates
around 360degrees.  (Actually one meg is required for a full spin but
the effect is still good in half meg!)  Also on the disc is a demo
for Videoscape of a Biplane flying in and out of the screen in 3D. 
Also included is a very nice vector graphics demo that is only a few
K in size and is REAL TIME  ie the vectors are calculated and drawn
50 times every second).


13 SLIDESHOW DISK #7
This slideshow consists of 12 great HAM (4096 colour) pictures
digitised with the Digi View graphics digitiser.  Various files
include a superb space ship and a brilliant picture of an old man. 
Files are in the old digiview format and have to be converted with
Pixmate or similar before it will load into Photon Paint etc.


14 NOW MUSIC #1
The disc that started a trend!  Since the first disc there have been
many more.  The first one includes 16 pieces of great music.


16 SCULPT 3D ANIMS
Perhaps one of THE classic PD discs containing one of the most
popular and often used animations; Khanakas. These animations all
work on a standard 512K machine and are excellent.


18 SONIX DATA #1
Lots of stuff for Aegis Sonix Music package.


19 SONIX DATA #2
Lots of stuff for Aegis Sonix Music package.


20 SONIX DATA #3
Lots of stuff for Aegis Sonix Music package.


21 SONIX DATA #4
Lots of stuff for Aegis Sonix Music package.


22 FONT DISK #1
All amigados fonts for use with most programs that use them.
Including Dpaint 2 etc.Fonts: Stencil,ST(!),Basic,Big, Topaz,
Broadway, Zebra, Bubble, C, Chicago2, Coop, Diamond, Digital,
Emerald, EricBd, Garnet, Gene, Helvetica, Hercules, Hpcalc, Squiggle,
L,Lines, Mchelt, memo, mfast, Mike, mpica, Omega, Opal, Philly, Pica,
Rdk1, Ruby, S, Swiss, Tempfont.  Note that some of the fonts have had
their `.font` extension changed to `.fon` to avoid problems with too
many fonts loading into programs such as Dpaint2 etc. 


23 EMPIRE
Complex trading/exploration game EMPIRE that may have some use in
education at some point.


24 HACK
The first version of the incredibly playable rpg. A bit like
dungeonmaster in plan view. Only small icon graphics but the game
plays very well as you pilot your way through the rankings and
through the dungeon levels to find the amulet.  Once found you then
have to proceed back through the levels and escape. Great fun.


25 SAMPLES DISK #1
26 sampled sounds and effects along with Perfect Sound so you can
edit and listen to them in a music package. Sounds: Alarm, boing, 
calliope, Carhorn, Chime, Chyme, Do, Drip1, Harp Arappegio, Heart,
Kotobend, Marimba, Organ Minor Chord, Pi, Rhodes, Sitar, Snare Roll, 
Steel Drum, Tellbell, Wailguitar, Whinny, Whistler, Zither.


26 SLIDESHOW DISK #8
This slideshow consists of 18 files of which all are of a classical
nature, ie digitised oil paintings etc.  Not my cup of tea but the
artists among you may appreciate this one.  Again a bootable disc
with files that can be loaded into other programs.


27 SLIDESHOW DISK #9
Roger Dean hits the Amiga in the form of this HAM slideshow.  15 of
Rogers classic paintings are captured in the Amigas 4096 colour mode,
again digitised with DigiView.  People unfamiliar with Roger Deans
work may be interested to learn that he is the artist responsible for
much of PSYGNOSIS`s artwork.  (Inc Barbarian, Terrorpods).


29 MACHINE ANIM
An animation created with Videoscape 3D, this features an imaginary
machine type thing with lots of moving parts (including the
obligatory amiga ball) and is very nice.Requires 1meg to see the full
animation.


30 BERSERK ANIM
Another Videoscape animation which is very strange its shows three
Unicycles being bounced off a ball. Again very good but you will need
a megabyte to see the full animation cycle.


31 CAR ANIM
The famous car demo which apparantley forms some kind of reference to
the inside dealings of companies in the states. Another 1meg affair
(inc some music) it features an innocent unicycle just trying to
cross the road but it gets run over by a speeding supercar and
bounces off the road... hmmm I wonder who the car is supposed to
represent...


32 SLIDESHOW DISK #10
This disc contains possibly the highest quality digitised graphics
yet, all digitised with Digiview by NEWTEK (the manufacturers)
themselves.  All load into any standard HAM package and are
unbelievable when first seen. Includes a brilliant table of food (?!)
and a couple of interlaced pictures so crisp and clear that lead you
to think its not an Amiga you're using! True photographic quality
plus some music.


35 BASIC DISK #2
Basic Program examples


36 BASIC DISK #3
Basic Program examples


37 BASIC DISK #4
Basic Program examples


38 ICON DEVLOPMENT
Icon Development Disc now vastly improved !!  Contains dozens of
icons, and lots of Icon utility programs.  Includes SHOWIZ (IFF/Text
show utility) Icon Maker, IFF 2 Icon, Iconizer, Xicon, Brush 2 Icon,
Split Icon, Icon Type, Iff_icon, Zapicon, Icon Image, Icon Lab (NEW
V1.1) and Icon Merge. Great for icon fans, full info on all
programs...


39 WORKBENCH DEMOS
Excite your workbench with these fun hacks.


40 SLIDESHOW DISK #11
A special full screen slideshow (ALL of the screen inc the border!)
including 13 excellent pictures of which all are HAM mode again. 
Includes a couple of Roger Deans artwork, some of Sachs work and some
digitised graphics.  Note: Some of the graphics may be considered
risque.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


41 SAMPLES DISK #2
Approx 100 samples of one octave instruments along with perfect
sound. Includes most type of instruments ranging from drums,
percussions, synths, string sounds, pianos, lead, backing, bass etc
plus a few special effects. Instruments can be changed to sonix or
deluxe music with programs such as Audiomaster/II etc.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


42 INTROS #1
A selection of now classic intros and demos full of music and
graphical effects.  Includes the following demos: Sinners(Not 1.3)
(Good music), Doc, Sanx, Fig, Scrollydemo, Atom and Skull(very nice).


43 INTROS #2
Another selection of intros all with great music and effects. 
Sanxion-Not 1.3, Vortex 1 and 2, Tcc (nice sample-Not 1.3), Knight
Hawks (great font), X-Men,Cool (great music-Not 1.3) and Tristar.


44 STAR RAY DEMO
This is a playable demo of Star Ray (the 1st level) a game very
reminiscent to Defender.  Ultra fast smooth scrolling and good
gameplay.  Commercial version available for 24.95 rrp The bootblock
on this disc may be highlighted as SCA virus by some virus detectors,
it is not and will not spread or cause any harm. If it is removed the
game will not work. Will NOT work on Issue 1.3 machines.


51 SONIX DATA #5
More tunes and instruments for Aegis Sonix owners.


52 SONIX DATA #6
More tunes and instruments for Aegis Sonix owners.


53 SLIDESHOW DISK #12
Another low-res slideshow featuring some very good artwork.  Files:
Amigarock, Art_deco, Champagne Buggati Royale, CutyLights, Dawning
Eagle, Donald, Eagle, Erdbeeren, F15-Staffel, Fantasy Castle, Fantasy
Rider, Futuretown, George-stubbs, Golfball, Icecream, Jetta,
Lambourghini, Motorad, Max Headroom Planeten-Mobil, Planet 1.


54 SLIDESHOW DISK #13
More art in this slideshow, quite a substanstial amount of which are
digitised.  Files: Cobra, Dunhill Pipes, Earring, Fantasy Warrior,
Jones, Liberty Skull, Looking Up, Magnum Force, Maison Du Lac, Mark
Knopfler, Marlboro, Mobil Oil, PCM, Skier, Sudden Impact, Tongue,
Train, TvDramagirl.


55 SLIDESHOW DISK #14
More graphic art in this slideshow that includes a great At-At
walker. Includes: Adept, artamiga, At-At, Butterfly, Direstraits,
Diver, EarthWind Fire, F15Navy, Fantasia, FoggyHarbour, Impossible,
Jolt, Kodak, Lightbulb, Mail Order Monster,Money for Nothing, Noid,
RobotTV, Roland, Solitary, Trinity, T-Rex,Worm.


56 SLIDESHOW DISK #15
A superb collection of quality HAM artwork all of which is digitised.
Most of it is fantasy art and included are some risque files.  Some
of the best amiga art (even though it is digitised).  17files.


57 SLIDESHOW DISK #16
More fantasy art (including some by Boris Vallejo) and some risque
files. Fourteen high quality images all HAM (4096 colour) mode.


58 SLIDESHOW DISK #17
More graphics, some digitised and some drawn, includes logos and
artwork of games, adverts etc.  Files: Animator, Capitol, Cathy,
Chessmaster, Defender, Elalogo, Formula1, Jazz, Level9, Lincoln,
Madonna, Rampage, Spacegun, SpaceHarrier, The Study, The Wall,
Tripods, Uninvited.


61 IFF SPECS DISK
Information on IFF formats, ideal for programmers.


62 SONIX DATA #7
More Sonix scores and instruments - requires Aegis Sonix.


63 JUGGLER
A mixed-bag of graphical goodies ranging from the classics like
JUGGLER and ROBO animation that really got people gibbering and
squirming all those years ago. Includes Blitter Demo (nice), Boing,
Sproing, Colorful, Zoing, Drive Music (make your disk-drive sing!),
Fractals, Robo, Juggler and the rather nice Nemesis planet demo.


66 CLI UTILITY DISK
First of the CLI utility discs this one boots up by itself and as
well as featuring all the usual CLI commands it features: Arc, Ask,
bars, boot control, browser2, Bandit Killer, Cls, Compack, Diskman,
Discsalv, Diskx, Diskutil5, Dme, Funckey, Gomf, Killer, Monitor,
Mycli, PLay, PLay2, Scrnblkr, Setmap, Shift, Show, Sonix_play,
Soundhack, Sysmon, Virus test, Warm Reset, Warp.   Note that this
disc is a CLI disc and as such is used through CLI ONLY!


67 SONIX DATA #8
More Sonix scores and instruments - requires Aegis Sonix.


68 COMMS DISK #1
Useful Comms programs for modem owners.


69 SONIX DATA #9
More Sonix scores and instruments - requires Aegis Sonix.


71 GAMES DISK
This disc contains a selection of games, 2 written with Abasic
(supplied as well).  Features: Amoeba Invaders (Brilliant space
invaders game) Tron Cycles game, Cluedo (great adaption of the board
game), Monopoly, Klondike (great cards patience game) and Missile
Command.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


72 UTILITIES #1
This utility disc comprises of Arc (file crunch and packing utility
for data transmission and storage.  Doshelper, a great utility that
gives you the syntax of all CLI commands quickly.  Funckey A great
program that allows you to edit the function keys with character
strings.  Overscan A small animation package including examples. 
Slide a slideshow program enabling you to create your own shows. 
Sprited a small sprite editor. Sysmonitor System Monitor. 
Documentation included.


73 UTILITIES #2
This disc contains: Asm a cli based assembler although you will need
Blink which is on disc 134.  Browser allows you to look at multiple
Ascii files at once.  MCad a small CAD package.  Clock 4 different
versions of a new clock program with multiple features.  FontED Font
editing utility.  Brushes for use with the Mcad package (electronics
based) and Silicon, a new Console for CLI.


74 UTILITIES #3
This disc features: Dirmaster disc catalogue system.  Big-view for
viewing very large iff files.  Egraph scientific graph plotter.
Mandelvroom a mandelbrot fractal picture generator.  Newzap excellent
disc/file editor.  Perfect Sound utility to load, edit and play
digitised sound. Planet a utility that wraps an IFF file around a
ball.  Supermort - a mortgage calculator etc.  Zoo file packer a
little like ARC.


75 UTILITIES #4
More utilities: Address and calender organizers written in Amiga
basic (included) and are very good.  Fpic graphics processor. 
Dosplus 1 & 2 which is a series of CLI utilites to be added to the C
dir (areacode, asc, Autonote, bit, chr, col, conv, dictionary, fixed,
help, input, lock, math, print, timer, unlock, wc).  Journal records
all mouse input and then allows you to replay it, great for demos. 
Playback, the play routine for journal.  X-Spell spelling checker.


76 SONIX JUKEBOX #1
The first of the sonix jukebox series, can also be used as data
discs.  The jukebox series all boot by themselves and dont actually
need sonix to hear the music.  All discs prior to this one were
purely just data orientated.


77 SONIX JUKEBOX #2
The 2nd sonix jukebox containing four great sonix tunes, Axel F
remix, Cameo, The Winner takes it all and a great version of Tubular
Bells.


80 MISC. PROGRAMS
Bargain Basement Lucky Dip disk.


83 GRAVATTACK
An excellent playable PD game here, one of the best PD games
existing! Basically resembles the sucessful 'Thrust' type game.  You
have a small craft which you have to move around a set of
obstructions and collect keys in order to reach the next level, of
which there are 17.  Play is by keyboard but doesnt detract from a
really addictive game which most people get more out of than some
commercial releases.


84 COKEMAN AND SMURF
2 nice animations, the first is of a man made out of a coke can who
revolves.  Its a HAM animation with clever reflection effects and the
illusion that it is metal is very good.  The smurf animation features
a smurf (what else) walking along with the camera panning around it.


85 EXPLODING
2 sick pieces of animation on here.  The now famous exploding head
demo (ugh!) and another of a bloke chopping some poor chaps arm off. 
For some reason these are really popular, says something about todays
society methinks.  Made us lot laugh anyway...


86 SONIX JUKEBOX #3
Features 18 songs including MIAMI which is truly awesome!  As with
other jukeboxes it loads and runs without sonix.


94 KING OF CHICAGO
Demo of the game.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


95 TAA BALL ANIM
The TAA Ball animation. Gorgeous animation of 3 spheres that rotate
on a mirrored plate. Works in 512K and is really nice. One of the
better 512K animations available. Excellent shading of the balls and
how the reflections are calculated. Does not work on 1.3 issue
machines.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


96 ACTION
No idea what this is.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


98 VIDEO 3D DEMO
A product demo of an extremely powerful and professional video
titler. Excellent and ultra smooth effects such as 3D rendering and
shatter effects..
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


104 ANTITRAX
Features 6 parts of a nice selection of flashy graphical demos
including a nice little shoot em up. Features nice sound and a very
funny demo (well WE like it...)  As with quite a few european demos,
some of the language is a bit on the wild side, so if you are very
easily offended then stay clear.


107 FASHION DEMO
Great graphics and even better sound combine in this great megademo.
Brilliant music by The DJ (as featured on U4).  Starts off like a 64
and is very nicely done, good use of samples too.  4parts.


108 VORTEX MEGADEMO
Another selection of 4 graphic and music demos put together. 
Features nice gfx and some good sound.


109 IAN AND MIC DEMO
8 parts of nice graphics and great digitised sound.  Includes a great
dancing bloke on the gents door one of the more original things we
have seen in a demo!  Very popular and very good.


111 WINTERBURG DEMO
Featuring music written by Michael Winterburg in an attempt to get
work! All good music written with his own system/routine.  Music:
Chaccone, AirDriver, Beginning, China Impressions.  Will not work on
Issue 1.3 machines.


112 NORTHSTAR DEMO II
Featuring the usual variety of graphic effects, music etc.  Nice
graphics and music for demo fans.


117 SONIX JUKEBOX #5
Two excellent sonix scores by Andreas Starr featuring Electric Dream
and Jo Road.  Both strongly feature high quality samples and sound
effects. Works with or without Sonix.


120 TECHNOFORCE
4 demos including a rather sick one that has you shooting soldiers
with the mouse.. although it did amuse some in the office.  Others
include neat effects and good music.  NOTE: Only works on 512K
machines and NOT on 1meg machines even with the extra ram switched
off.


124 INTROS #3
More great demos featuring great sound, music & effects. Includes:
Doc, Cobacabana,Spaceship, Gang (Not 1.3), Unlabeled, YTV, Ackerlight.


125 INTROS #4
More great demos, Barbrian, Rastermagic, Dexion, Northstar, Don
Martin, Gang.  All include nice sound and graphics.


126 INTROS #5
More demos!  Including Megaforce, Quadlite Music, ECA DIY Demo, Tors
Ball, The Gang.  All good stuff!


127 INTROS #6
Another collection of graphics and sound demos.  Sinners II, Iron
Maiden, Soundmachine (including a great Outrun tune by Fred),
Hulkamania, Autobahn.


128 NOW MUSIC #2
Now thats what I call music..Vol 2.  A disc packed with amazing amiga
music!  Don't ask what its called, its all written with Soundtracker
(by EAS software) and just pump up the volume! 129 SONIX JUKEBOX #6
Another Sonix jukebox featuring 8 pieces of music the Grandmix
probably the main highlight, as its absolutely brilliant.  Also
features Forever Autumn (From War Of The Worlds) Big Standard, Its a
Sin, Model, Iris, Save Me, Bluemonday.  Plus the usual instruments
etc.


130 DELUXE MUSIC DATA DISK #1
Deluxe music data disc.  Contains 25 instruments and the following
tunes: Hunt, Terp1-Terp9, Cactus, Lestours, Dont Let It Show, For
Kantate, Cruise, Sudsinfonia.  A lot of the tunes are Midi based. 
Also included are List. instr which lists the instruments used in a
song.  Smusplay which plays .smus files.  (Instructions included).


131 MIDI DISK #1
Midi Utilities and Data.  Midi patch librarians and hundreds of
patches.


132 TEXT ENGINE DEMO
This is a demo of Text Engine. Yes, really!


133 SAMPLER DISK #3
This disc contains a really good playable demo of Shanghai the
chinese tiles/patience game.  Also included is the user-definable
COSMO (Asteroids) game which is very good. There are also some Flight
Simulator 2 information files which add extra fun and clues to new
locations.


134 CLI UTILITY DISK
2nd of the Cli utility discs, this one based around the ARP (Amigados
replacement project) which is in short a much faster alternative to
the standard CLI.  As well as the ARC 'c' cli commands this disc
contains BLINK, the freely available Linker for use with Assemblers
etc. Said to be much better than the commercial Alink available from
Commodore. Bootwriter for writing bootblocks (unsurprisingly).  CLED,
Conman, Crunch, Disksalv, Guardian, IconEd, Texed, Smush, Zapicon,
Zoo.


135 GAMES DISK
Games disc featuring Backgammon, Cosmo, Missile Command, Tunnel
Vision, 3D Breakout (needs 3d glasses) and Cosmo Version II.


138 AEGIS DEMOS
Disc contains animations created with Aegis animator.  Includes a jet
animation and a lander demo. Disc also includes a workable demo of
Aegis Draw, a CAD program.


139 SAMPLES DISK #3
More IFF sounds and samples.  Includes Aaaahhhh!,  Alert, Bagpipes,
Blubb, Boom, Bop, Bwang, Clang, Coca_Cola_Wave, Coyote, Crunch,
Duhdum, Evil Porky, Maxx, MM!, MMBirds, Myshot, OOmph!, Panflute,
Plane, Petruccio, Plug, Pow, Ptt, Sexycomputer, Smash, Spacedoors,
Sputter, Swoosh, Train, Twang, VipVip, Vwoop and of course Perfect
Sound to play them all with.


140 FONT DISK #2
A collection of high-res fonts for use in Dpaint2 etc or any program
that allows the use of standard amiga fonts.  These fonts are best
used in high-res mode (although they can be used in any mode) and
vary from 40 points to 127 points.  The standard font is 8 points
high.  These fonts were originally on Fish 133 but seeing as tho its
incredibly difficult getting them off (took me six hours and thats
with extra ram, drives etc..) we thought people would appreciate them
on a usable disc.


141 SONIX JUKEBOX #7
Sonix Jukebox featuring 4 sonix tunes which sound remarkably like
Soundtracker ones!  Features, Running Man, Virus Theme, Telephone
Call and Jack You Disc.


142 NOW MUSIC #3
Another collection packed with Amiga music.  All good stuff and great
for music fans.


145 JET DEMO
Demo of a Jet


146 SUPER CLI DISK
For use as a cli disc plus as a premium utility disc.  All accessed
from a menu, disc includes: Arc, Big, Boot, Bootwriter, Boot Control,
Crunch, Disksalv, Fastload, VirusX, Cliwiz (superb Cli replacement
program), DirUtility, DiskX (disc editor), Texteditor,
UmUtil/Utilimas, Viewboot. Highly reccomended if you didnt get the
starter-pack or the Quickstart pack.


147 ELECTRONIC ARTS
Something


149 MORIA
The great RPG has been speeded up and generally made much more
playable. This is version III and tweaks include nice inter-level
graphics. A must for 1meg adventure fans, this game is SO playable!!
A little bit like Hack and Larn but more involved, offers HOURS of
gameplay for 1meg users...


151 UTILITY DISK #5
Three excellent utilities here, Bank N a complete banking package,
look after your pennies!  Dirmaster superb disc catalogue system. 
Also Turbo- backup, a really fast and reliable copier for backing up
non-protected discs, we use it in the office!
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


152 SAMPLES DISK #4
More IFF samples, Alsation, Alsation 2, Another Parrot, Band Saw,
Bark, Bird Atmosphere, Cackling Geese, Chimps, Chop, Classic Terrier,
Cow 2, Cow, Cows, Daft Parrot, Falling Tree, Geese, Elephants,
Lioness, Mistle Thrush, Nightingale, Police Sheep, Tawny Owl, Parrot
(again), Yap.  Also contains perfect sound to play them.


153 GATOR MIX
A Music Demo


154 NOW MUSIC #5
Packed with amiga music!


156 NOW MUSIC #7
Even more Amiga music!!


157 NOW MUSIC #8
Yet more Amiga music for you to blast through the hifi.


159 GAMES DISK
Games Disc containing Asteriods, Backgammon, Egyptian Run, Gravity
Wars, IFF2Pcs. Iff2pcs is a diy jigsaw puzzle, just add your own
16color iff file and hey-presto!


162 DUTCH SOUNDS
Listen to those Tulips.


163 SONIX JUKEBOX #10
Loads and loads of sonix tunes on here, there are about a dozen or so
which are accessable via a menu but the others are for use with sonix.


164 INTROS #7
Contains Six very good demos, all featuring good effects and nice
music! Featured: Soundmachine II (By Fred), Sin Demo, Walking Shoes,
Mark II, I Cubitus, MetalWar Demo.


165 CRIMETOWN DEPTH
Some nice graphics and animation make up a nice product demo of
Mirrorsofts Italian title, Crimetown Depth. Nice sequences of what
promises to be an interesting game.


166 SAMPLES DISK #5
More IFF samples Boing, Boinging, Bond, Cans, Empire, Hal, Open Pod,
Starman, StarTrek, Star Wars, War and Warner.  Fewer samples but they
are much longer.  Of course perfect sound is included.


167 SKYCHASE DEMO
2 player dogfight game demo.


168 VARIOUS DISK #1
This disk is so exciting that I'm not allowed to mention here what it
contains. Be warned!  No. Not really. It's probably boring.


170 SLIDESHOW DISK #20
Contains examples of the type of quality you can expect to find when
using the digitising service.  Full details of the service are also
on the disc.


171 SLIDESHOW DISK #21
Good slideshow featuring the following files: MagForce, Gryzor,
Flatball, Ravage, Roadblaster, AmigaForce, Tetragon Hifi, Full Metal
Jacket, Mountain Tiger, Hack, Flash Gordon, Im Late, Legend
(brilliant), Garfield, Guru, Woman and Morris and of course a
suitably silly piece of music this time In The Mood!


172 INTROS #8
More Intros.  Contains Phenomena, Guru, TEF, Megaforce, Quest
(featured on front of Amiga user) and Digitech.


173 UTILITIES #6
Features an astronomy program AMIGAZER, Chess, Othello, Adventure
Creator, Printext & SpaceAce.


174 UTILITIES #7
Contains a version of the Collosal cave adventure game by Crowther
and Woods. Includes some utilities (check utilities section for
listing of these).


175 LARN
A great rpg in the style of Hack but with more features and superb
gameplay. Once `Into' it you play for HOURS! One of our favourite PD
discs yet.  Great for RPG fans, works fine in 512K and is highly
reccomended. Poor graphics no sound but really playable!


176 WILD COPPER DEMO
Now Classic Amiga Demo from the French programming team, Wild Copper.
Features a terrific vector graphics demo, great music and superb
effects. Including a scrolling text over workbench!  Great stuff, a
real collectors item although there are the odd naughty words now and
again.


177 INTROS #9
Intro disc featuring some very nice demos, including Balla balla, 6
spinning worlds which is extremely nice also a nice Thrust demo of an
elephant. Others Quadlite, Thrust 2, Knighthawks, Dexion, The Firm
and Wizball (featuring nice heavy music).


180 NOW MUSIC #9
Another sound disc crammed with quality music.  Once again all music
written on soundtracker!


181 DRAGONS LAIR
Fantastic cartoon quality animation sequences in the 1meg demo for
the game Dragons Lair, which is available NOW and spans no fewer than
SIX discs! Great demo! Sound with 1.5meg and upwards


182 NOW MUSIC #10
Yet more soundtracker ditties compiled for your aural pleasure.  Use
with a hifi for best results.


183 INSTRUMENTS #1
More instruments


184 SPACEWRITER
Create Disk Letters for your friends.


185 INSTRUMENTS #2
Some instruments


186 INSTRUMENTS #3
Some instruments


187 INSTRUMENTS #4
Some instruments


188 INSTRUMENTS #5
Some instruments


190 SONIX JUKEBOX #14
Features some great sonix tracks, all written for the Amiga by
Allister Brimble.


191 DRILLER DEMO
Demo of Driller.


193 NOW MUSIC #11
Another in the popular series of amiga music hits..


194 INTROS #10
Six more intros: Tristar, LPA, Suriders 12K demo, Platoon Demo, Ice
Demo and Kefrens 7up Demo.  All with the usual array of good effects
and music.


196 HOUSE MUSIC
Godbrains House Of Love Sonix House Hits!  (Nice Tongue twister..)
Three mainly digitised Sonix House music for Amiga House fans.


197 MUSIC/INTROS
A disc combining the delights of music and intros.10pieces of music
and 4 intros: Red sector mousemover demo, Blaster Demo, Quest Demo,
Kefrens Stone Demo (With nice music).


198 SONIX HOUSE (ACID)
Mike Archers Acieeeeed Sonix Scores!  Featured in The One and have
gained somewhat of a following, Mike has also done a followup for our
library!


201 SONIX CLASSICS
The one we blasted out at the Nov 88 Commodore Show!


202 MUSIC INVASION III
This 2 disc compact contains the following tracks: Crack Of Dawn,
Codeline, The Lost Boys, Monty On The Run, Take A Walk, Proteus,
U-Fox, H+M Tune, Hoolabaloo, Bass Attack, Chop Sui, The Dawn,
Megaforce, Radioactive, Fall Out, Band Theme, Jungle Bungle, Cracker
Journal, Winged Beast plus *Bonus* of a playable pacman game!


203 MUSIC INVASION III
Disk two of the above demo.


204 BUGGY COMMAND
Buggy Commando.  A playable demo rather like the old Moon Alert/Moon
Buggy games, control your buggy over obstacles.Featured in The One.


207 PIONEER PLAGUE
Demo of the 4096 colour game.


208 DELUXE PHOTOLAB
A rolling demo of Deluxe Photolab, featuring some excellent graphics
and acts as a superb tutorial/introduction to the program. Requires
1meg to run. Similar format to the Dpaint 3 program which I deem to
be a better program although theres no HAM mode on Dpaint III.


209 DELUXE PHOTOLAB
Disk two of the above demo.


213 JCS MEGADEMO
A nice British demo by JCS incorporating some nice graphics and music
etc. Pity there doesn't seem to be too many good UK Demo-disks as yet.


214 SONIX JUKEBOX #17
`Hubbard Hits 1' by Allister Brimble, featuring Monty On The Run,
Confuzion, Gerry Germ 1/2, Ace II, Saboteur 2, Thing On a Spring.


215 BOMBUZAL DEMO
Demo of the game.


216 TRIANGLE GIGADEMO
Triangle `Giga` Demo, featuring six parts of Music, graphics,
scrollies and sillyness.. Features reasonable effects and music.


218 RSI/DEFJAM DEMO
Nice set of demos by RSI/DEFJAM featuring some very good effects and
excellent Soundtracker music.  Quite a few parts to each bit and the
last bit (when it eventually appears!) features some very nice
effects but unfortunatly this bit doesnt work with 1.3 machines.


220 2MEG WALKER DEMO
The amazing Walker Demo! This is the 2 disc 2megabyte version (a 1meg
version can be found on disc 262). This shows an incredibly detailed
and well animated AT-AT vehicle walking by the side of a B2000,
looking round and shooting complete with sound FX, has to be one of
the best demos available for the Amiga.  Created by Bill Williams of
Imaginetics.


221 2MEG WALKER DEMO
Disk two of the above demo.


223 STARCHART
A fine astronomy program that gives all the positions and movements
of the major constellations. Very good and nicely presented.  Easy
operation for all star gazing fans and enthusiasts.


225 SLIDESHOW DISK #22
A nice demo with a remix of MIAMI (by Alvin Starr) features 10 very
nicely drawn game-adverts... Gryzor, Rastan, Last Ninja, Road Runner,
Outrun (shows you just what it COULD have been like!) IK+, Target
Renegade, Thing Bounces Back, Head Over Heels, Sanxion.  All very
nicely drawn with good music.


226 IPEC ELITE DEMO
Ipec Elite Mega demo featuring about 6 parts of music, graphics and
even a shoot-em-up!  The usual style of effects etc, nice shoot em up.


227 DIGITA DEMO
Some Digita demos.


229 KML AFTERBLITTER
Another demo by Steve-Snake of KML this time featuring the
Afterblitter demo that has a matrix of balls spinning around, arcade
style again from the Afterburner original.


233 CARTOON PICTURES
A novel idea this one, a comic on a disc! Files are all in GIF format
which allows them to be loaded on most of the major machines using
the GIF program.  About 50 screens of story about vampires amongst
other things. Nicely done.  Taken from Compuserve in the states.  The
story is called Jack Frost.


235 DELUXE PAINT CLIPART
A disc containing around 60 fonts and some surfaces for use with PAL
graphics packages.  All data is in IFF screen format (ie. fonts have
to be cut out as brushes) this has advantages and disadvantages but I
know a few people who prefer handling fonts that way.  Some nice
wood/marble is also included.  Comes complete in a slideshow so you
can view them easily prior to use.


236 BUNSEN BURNER
A videoscape animation created by P.Warnes (a member of 17Bit) for
us. Nice use of Dpaint and Videoscape and is a tongue in cheek stab
at Interceptor I think... The main animation shows an F15 flying
through a ravine and having a close shave with another.  Nicely put
together. Requires 1megabyte to run.


237 SUBWAY MUSIC
Worlds Wave 1 Music disc by Subway.  Features 7 tunes.  Vipe Out,
Laser- dance, Autumn Dance, No Future, Into The Night, Industrial
Part1 and Industrial Part 2.


238 EAR MUSIC DISK
Five tunes on here including one superb one called Bionic tune which
is only 16K long but its ace!  Written using something called Sidmon
which everyone is waiting for with baited breath!  Also on here is
Sliding away (another really good Sidmon one) and Little Fun, Ode To
Jarre, Take a Walk.


239 MEGAFORCE MUSIC
9 pieces of music Alf Mix, In Space, Headache, 16Bit, Mix Express,
Rock and Bone, Steve B & Echoing.  All done on soundtracker by
`Ranger'.


240 LUXO TEENAGER
Excellent Luxor Teenager animation, a sequel to the award winning
animation on a mainframe.  It is based on the antics of 2 angle-poise
lamps, a large one and a mischeavious smaller one who is playing with
a ball.  Produced with Sculpt 4d. Very good HAM graphics, very smooth
moving. Requires 1megabyte to run.


241 CLASSIC DEMO
A demodisc called `Classic demo' featuring classics from the 64
music-wise. Formula 1, Commando, Monty Highscore, Knucklebusters,
Warhawk.


242 NOW MUSIC #12
15 Soundtracker tunes by Masterblaster & Rastan.  Boot it up and pump
up the volume!


243 UTILITIES #8
Utility disc comprising of Disksalv (lastest version) which is a
superb disc salvager for people with hard-drives or more than one
drive. Directory Util version 6, excellent cli utility move files
with ease. 60 or 80 switch between modes at the flick of an icon. 
Screenzap clear up screens not being used.  Nag clever appointment
calendar with full features including speech etc.  Icon
fun/iconizer/snap build a library of pointers and swap between them
at will!


247 UTILITIES #9
This utility disc contains the X series of programs, Disk X (great
disc editor), Screen X (grab screens with this utility), Task X
(control your amiga`s tasks), and Virus X.  Memo Pad is also included
(a very nicely done application), Dmouse (mouse accelerator),
Quickbase (address database) and Makeanim (for creating animation
files easily using IFF files and a simple script).


248 INTROS #11
Contains Crush (with some great foot-tapping music `Birdie Dance` and
Benny Hill Theme! but not on Issue 1.3) Megaforce demo,Oddysey (very
nice music), Phalanx (nice music), Prophets (again good music) and
the Skeleton Demo (Not 1.3).


249 INTROS #12
Contains the following; It demo, Sae Demo, Index (great music but not
1.3!), MFC/SAE demo, Phonic (2 pieces of nice music), Telephonic.


250 COMMS DISK #2
More stuff for modem users.


251 NOW MUSIC #13
Even more music to tickle your eardrums.


252 NOW MUSIC #14
And more superb music to listen to.


253 WALKER DEMO II TRAILER
The excellent intro for Walker Demo II, note that although this is a
trailer it is a full demo! There is a 1meg version also available on
Disc 255. This demo was on show just about everywhere at the last CBM
show and depicts an AT-AT attacking downtown Chicago.. and a
helicopter makes a brave stand.. but does it succeed? Find out in
Walker Demo II!!


254 WALKER DEMO II TRAILER
Disk two of the above demo.


255 1 MEG WALKER
The 1meg version of the above.. in fact you dont really lose a great
deal, a few sound effects and approx 5-6 seconds of animation
including the helicopter bit. Still a fantastic demo and definatly
one for the collectors.


257 DOC MUSIC
DOC Net-Analyser demo, featuring a nice vector equalizer routine and
some great music!  Allows you to turn on/off the music channels to
create your own sort of mix.  Very nice demo containing the following
selection of music, Dear Rob, Angie S, MetalSynth, Crack Of Dawn,
Megaforce Theme, The End.  Quality demo.


258 WORLDS WAVE 2
Mega music demo from the Austrian group Subway... Some very nice
effects and great tunes.


260 NOW MUSIC #15
Yet more music to tickle your fancy.


261 HOGG MUSIC DISK
A collection of music composed and compiled by Steve Hogg,Nice Day,
Aquatic, Dead End, Technopop, Uptown, Beat Master, Down Town, Only
now.


262 WALKER DEMO
The original version where the AT-AT walks by the side of a B2000. 
Great demo and definatly one for your collection contrary to rumours
there are no plans for a 512K version.. sorry!


263 MIX DISK #1
Contains a very nice Walking legs animation as well as 2 pieces of
music (alf tune and Push/Shove), and three intros by TLB (12K vector
scroll), Subway demo and a Kefrens/7up demo.


264 SLIDESHOW DISK #23
Consists of some superb artwork by Ian Harling Tudor Cottage,
Biplane, glass and 4 screens from `The Lost Patrol` which is a game
based around Vietnam and the graphics are really nice, atmospheric
and lets hope the game lives up to the graphics.  Ian is also
available for commercial work. Also on the slideshow apart from a
very nice sample are some hi-quality interlaced HAM digitised shots
of NASA space operations, the shuttle etc.


265 HOME UTILTIES
Includes a word processor (Wordwright) including full instructions
and is ready to run, and a simple spreadsheet program which
unfortunatly has no instructions but we included it non-the-less.


269 INTROS/MUSIC
Another mix disc, consisting of 2 demos; Flying Rabbits and Epsilon
plus 10 pieces of amiga soundtracked music.


271 DEXION MEGADEMO
One of the better mega demos featuring some great music and some
excellent effects.  Lots of parts and some insane loading music that
Dave thinks is ace (???!) great Supermarket music near the end too!


272 DRAGONS LAIR
Demo of the game.


273 JUNGLE COMMAND
Jungle Command `Non-Stop!' music disc.  Features 13 tracks Ultrafox,
Hi-Fi, Mars Invation, Moving Squad, Latest Song, Jungle Operation, On
The Road, 64 Memories, Revenge, Sharp, Kettle, Last Ninja, Ultimate
Fun.


276 SUNTRONIX SOUNDS
3 Demo scores by Suntronic (Felix Schmidt) whose musical work was
also included on our update 6.  All three are very nice and show off
his routine to mix internal voices and samples.


279 INTROS #13
Contains... Sos Sound-select (3 tunes) Amiga Industries Aircraft
vector demo, Northstar Intro, Newline demo and MGF & JOY horizontal
demo!


280 INTROS #14
Includes the BRILLIANT Pan demo!  Cascade (great music), Mirage (nice
music/effects), Roger Rabbit Intro, It demo,Tsk demo.


281 CRYPTOBURNERS
Cryptoburners Mega music Vol 4! Including their own top 10 headed by
Fred Hahns great New Horizons includes Qubix 1, Universe, Lars,
Telephone, DataZ Mix 88, Superaction7, Victory Disaster 2, CRB Theme
2, Lovestory.


282 PARANOID GAME
Paranoid Game. Very good Pd arkanoid clone that even includes a
screen designer. Good value for a Pd game. Of german origin.


283 INTROS #15
Contains Alcatraz demo (very good), Mighty Bobs, Phalanx, Piranahs,
Prophets 1 & 2, Quadlite (nice).  Good music and graphics.


284 HUBBARD MUSIC #2
Classic Rob Hubbard music tracks by Allister Brimble using Sonix and
soundtracker.  Contains Commando, Commando Hi-Score (Stracker),
Warhawk, Mega Apocalypse, Sanxion, Delta, Star Paws, LightForce (all
Sonix).


288 SONIX HOUSE #2
Mike `Beatmaster` Archer strikes back after the successful Sonix
House 1 (which was featured in The One).  Contains... Housenation,
How about that, What ya got?, Big Bad Beat, Techno.


290 ZOETROPE DEMO
A new animation package using yet another format (RIF) that allows
you to use anim files from just about any machine/format including
cyber studio ones from the ST and .anim amiga files. Included on the
disc are five animations the best of which is the Skeleton doing the
backflip.  Also includes Zoedemo 1 (a cutey creature that wobbles and
falls over), Dinonew a simple animation, Li`l Guy another cutey guy. 
Backflip (need 1meg for the whole flip!) and Zoesparklet 3D text
animation.


296 PHALANX DEMO
Consists of 5 nice bits of music... Abstraction, Maul, Techno,
Oxygene and Acoustic in a nice demo.


297 AMAZING TUNES 1
All music written by `Zing` scores on this demo disc are... Heavy
House, Technopop, Dreamland, Downtown, Hot Blood, My Life, Nice Day,
Beatmaster, Faster One, Killing Time.  Nice music.


298 NUPOWER DEMO
Dr Awesomes Nu Power Music Disc.  Features the following music,
Mothership, Last Summer, Line Up, Hole In The House, The Chill and
Moods.  Nice little Hifi controller too.  Some of the language used
is a bit fresh though.


300 SUPERWRITER DATA DISK
Contains 8 extra soundtracker modules for you to load into
Spacewriter (Disc 184) and Ghostwriter (Disc 353) Contains such
goodies as Monty On The Run Hi-score music by Allister Brimble,
MetalSynth by Walkman, Revolutions and Rendezvous by Allister.  Also
works as a music disc via the function keys.


301 IT MEGADEMO
The IT Megademo (Yes, another megademo..) This one consists of 6
parts of mayhem, music and marvellous graphics (as usual) including
some shaded balls that get Steve excited (!)


303 AGATRON SLIDESHOW #2
Sent to us by Agatron supremo Tobias Richter.  Nice slideshow with
some A-Team music(!!) files: Alert, Enterprise, Star Wars, Spaceships
(loads of these!), Excalibur, Startrek (more startrek stuff!),
Valley, At-At, Battlecruiser Warp, Balls, Car.  Mainly sci-fi and
fantasy based with heavy leanings toward StarTrek and Star Wars as
Tobias is a real `Trekkie`!


305 AGATRON ANIM
Yet another one of Tobias`s excellent Animations this time of a tank
from Tron getting crushed by a deactivator (well thats what I think
they are called!). Good 1meg only though!


306 AGATRON ANIM
Agatron animation disc containing The Jet demo with objects by Allen
Hastings and animation by Tobias Richter shows an F15 flying from the
sky and landing on a runway. This needs 1megabyte. Also included is
an excellent Reliant (Star Trek) animation and a Nelson (another Star
Trek craft) animation.  All produced using Videoscape by Aegis.


307 AGATRON GAMES
3 Games by Agatron, Mad Race, Space Race and Light Cycles 3D (a nice
version of Tron in 3D by Tobias Richter).  Also included are a 3D
object editor called Viking, IFFload and IFF-C utilities,
Taskmanager, Selector and Blinker (a utility to flash the power led).


308 AGATRON ANIM
More Agatron animations by Tobias Richter this time, we have two very
nice robot animations, a spaceship animation and Workbee.  1megabyte
reccomended but not needed (only to see the last bit of the spaceship
animation).


312 SUNTRONIX MUSIC
Again promoting the author (Felix Schmidt) of Suntronic.  Contains 8
pieces of music, all written using his own routine that combines
internal sounds and samples.


315 DEATHSTAR (DISK 1)
An excellent Finnish Mega-demo that has a stunning opening sequence
and some brilliant sound effects.  Includes 12 parts spread over 2
discs that includes a small magazine section.  All good stuff again,
the usual filling of nice music, graphics and special effects.


316 DEATHSTAR (DISK 2)
Disk 2 of the Finnish Mega-demo.


317 DESIGN 3D DEMO
A nice full-screen demo of the new CAD package.  Looks very easy to
use and is an excellent demo as it shows you quite a few examples as
well as exactly how something is created (all mouse movements have
been recorded and played back). Includes the facility to create
animation files, copes with 16 colours, light shading etc.  Full
commercial package is available NOW.


318 SONIX SOUNDS
4 very nice sonix tunes by Allister Brimble (Demonology II and Orient
Express) and Jim Brown (Glowing Ears and Ivory Towers II [Sonix
conversions of the DJ`s scores]) All are very good and the DJ
conversions are indistinguishable from the originals.  Demonolgy II
is excellent, really high quality.  Some great instruments here.


319 INTROS #16
More superb intros, includes PAN DEMO II (Funny), Mixer Demo,
Moonlighting, Phalanx,Kefrens Psychoball.  All the demos are very
good.


320 INTROS #17
Another collection of 8 intro-demos, includes Abakus (nice), Academy
(nice music), Creative Thoughts (Nice balls!), The ST shiny bubbles
demo (on an amiga and only 25% of the original size), Enemies Vector
demo, Acieed Demo by Piranhas,Melt (very nice) and Tanic which is
nice but not for 1.3 owners as it doesnt work!


322 RAYS PD MUSIC #1
Disc compiled by Ray Burt Frost of Southampton, contains 10 good
quality Amiga tunes.


326 AGATRON ANIMS
Created by Tobias Richter using Videoscape 3D. This disc is a 1meg
affair and shows a Star Wars X-Wing fighter coming into view and
spinning around.


327 AGATRON ANIMS
Three Agatron animations, again courtesy of Tobias Richter,Workbee
shows a small Star-Trek craft flying into a reliant craft, this needs
1meg. Also on the disc are two animations of a lotus zooming down a
road and a jet flying over a road then a lotus zooming past. All
created using Aegis`s Videoscape package.


328 AGATRON ANIMS
Two Agatron animations by Tobias Richter, Space a massive spaceship
that comes from space with all its bits spinning and rotating and
then the perspective changes and it disapears into space again. Tron2
A deactivator tank from Tron (the movie) gets crushed. 1Meg needed.


329 AGATRON ANIMS
The widely known Dry-Dock Star-Trek animation that has been featured
in loads of magazines now and was on view at the show. Again its by
Star Trek fan Tobias Richter and again using Videoscape. Of course
you do need 1meg for it.


330 AGATRON ANIMS
More Agatron animations, featuring the Agatron logo and an excellent
1meg animation showing tie-fighters and X-wing fighters from Star
Wars flying through space and lots of them too!  Surprise, its by
Tobias Richter and yes it was created on Videoscape 3D.


331 AGATRON ANIMS
Another two very nice animations courtesy of Tobias Richter and
Videoscape 3D. This time of a Klingon cruiser flying and firing its
way through space. (1meg) Also a reliant Star Trek craft hovering
through space and flying away.


332 AGATRON ANIMS
More (yes more!) Agatron animations by Tobias Richter this time of
the space shuttle orbiting, 3 Klingons and a Knox ship revolving.
1meg reccomended for these (as ever).


333 AGATRON ANIMS
A massive Star-Wars animation that is so big that it needs to be run
from CLI (no space for commands on the disc), you will need a
showanim command (on all the Agatron discs) and to read the `read.me`
on the disc for full instructions, if you have 1meg and 2 drives then
its really quite simple to get the animation going. But at the moment
it will not auto-run. We did this rather than put it out on 2 discs.


334 AGATRON ANIMS
Another huge Star-Wars animation that is very spectacular and another
of Tobias`s Videoscape creations.  Like 333 you will need to follow
the on-disc instructions.1meg req.


335 RAYS PD MUSIC #2
Rays PD World Of music Disc 2.  Disc compiled by Ray Burt Frost
featuring 7 hot amiga hits created on Soundtracker.


336 BEST OF HUBBARD
Best Of Hubbard by Allister Brimble, program by someone else, I
forget who. Features 16 classic Amiga tracks: Sanxion, Master Of
Magic, Warhawk, Lightforce, Star Paws, Ace 2, Confusion,
Knucklebusters, Monty On the Run, Mega Apocalypse, Thing On a Spring,
Saboteur 2, Riccochet, Gerry The Germ 1 and Gerry The Germ 2.  All
written with sonix and as such it will act as a sonix data disc too..


338 SOFTKILLER DEMO
TSK Demos consisting of a very nicely presented menu with very nice
music and graphics and six sections, all with meritable
graphics/music of some sort. Sunset, TSK, Young 89, Roundabout, Final
Part & hall of Fame.


340 TRIANGLE DEMO
Triangle Megademo 8 parts to this demo featuring the usual array of
sprites, scrollers and music (some nice music at that).


341 PURE SONIX
Jolyon Myers presents PURE the amiga version, with three very nice
sonix scores, Pure, Go and Hardfall.  Nice instruments too.


342 KRIS KORTE MUSIC
Kris Korte Music Disc, including The Jackson Mix, Knightwork, Saftey
Music, Discrimination, Cast Off, Curiosity Dance, More self-promoting
stuff here!


343 LAST NINJA
Last Ninja Music disc, all very nice (9 of em) and written with
Sonix. Written by some guys calling themselves Bros (strange choice
of name if you ask me, which you probably arent but never mind).


345 WINTERBURG DISK #2
More self-promotion in the form of the 2nd Michael Winterburg
music-disc in the library, featuring the following music tracks,
Crazy Wolfs, Friendship music, Rap II, Chaconne and Phantasy Flight. 
Nice music written with his own routine.  Does not work on 1.3 issue
machines though.


346 FLASH TEAM MUSIC
Flash Team Music contains a superb collection of Amiga Soundtracker
music: Angie S, Warhawk, Cousin Song, Axel F,Demons, Dear Rob,
Popcorn Mix, New Horizons, Outrun, Autumn Tune, DNS, Megaforce, Brown
Ass.  Excellent.


347 TAR SOUNDS
The Acoustic Revolution Music-Demo featuring 19 scores over 2 discs,
all original music.  (Will not work on 1.3 issue machines)  Features:
Sledgedance, Night Run, 2nd Project, Snare Slider, Midnight Dream,
Burning Hearts, Living Prophets, Smashdance, Disaster and many more!


349 FRED HAHN MUSIC
Even more self-promoting (what PD is good at!) in the form of a
collection of music done by Fred Hahn, includes 5 pieces of music, 4
original pieces and a great version of Space Harrier.  Music: Last
Star, Sunny Dream, Special Dream, Neon Light and Space Harrier.


350 CONNECTION MUSIC
Features a dozen Amiga Soundtrackered scores, all of a high quality
including such aural feasts as Lovetheme for Dr Ruth (!!) and I am a
Horse!


353 GHOSTWRITER 2.0
Write disk letters to your friends. Great


354 C-LIGHT DEMO
Demo of this raytracer


356 DPAINT 3 DEMO (DISK 1)
Demo of Deluxe Paint 3


357 DPAINT 3 DEMO (DISK 2)
Demo of Deluxe Paint 3


358 PSYGNOSIS SHOW
Slideshow of Psygnosis products.


361 DELUXE MUSIC DATA DISK #3
After many requests another Deluxe Music data disc.


363 WINTERBURG DISK #3
Another self-promotions disc by Michael Winterburg again it fails to
run on a 1.3 machine.  Contains: Digital Voyage, Friendship, Wolf
Remix, Pauker Rap, Flight and Chaccone.


364 RIP ERUPTION
17 great Amiga tunes featuring 64 Memory, Autumn, Brown Ass, Chop
Flash, Dance, Dear Rob, Electronic Knights Theme, Ivory Tower II,
Megaforce, Metal, New Horizons, Powerball, Proteus, Last Ninja,
Vicious Circle, Thrust, Vype Out.


365 ACID HOUSE MIX
Acid Tracks! Good quality House/Acid hits complete with visual
effects. Contains two tracks, XTC! and CRY BABY.


366 MINDPOWER MUSIC
This jukebox contains 8 tracks, all original compositions New Age 1,
2, 3 and 4.  Russian Ballard, Night Theme, Spy Chase, Hunter.


368 RAYS PD MUSIC #3
More excellent music compiled by Ray Burt-Frost.


370 TENNIS
Anyone for Tennis?? This 1meg Tennis game allows two people to battle
it out on centre court using their joysticks.  This german shareware
program was sent by a friend of ours, Guido who writes for a German
PD magazine. Hi guido hope the music was ok!


371 AGATRON ANIMS
Another Agatron Animation this time created with Dpaint III, its a 2D
animation showing how you could present something using the package. 
Not quite as stunning as Tobias`s 3D Videoscape stuff but good
none-the-less. Of course its about Star-Trek!


372 AGATRON ANIMS
Another of Tobias Richters Star Trek creations, this features a
Reliant and an Enterprise in combat. The enterprise moves slowly
above and behind and shoots the reliant, rocking it... Very nicely
done, huge 3D graphics, smooth action. (1meg!) Also on the disc is a
robot animation where the robot is walking along.


373 AGATRON ANIMS
More Tobias Richter animations created with Videoscape, the first is
a fairly basic 2D animation of 2 Star-Trek craft passing each other
in space. Also on the disc is a very good animation of a craft flying
toward a planet.. the camera angle swings round bringing the craft
into view very neatly and cleverly done requires 1meg of course!


374 AGATRON ANIMS
Yet more animations from Tobias Richter, this time theres not a
Star-Trek animation to be seen! The first one is a billiard/pool
table an shows an animated sequence, again its well done. Also are
two animations of a road, where a lotus and an F-15 fly down (nice).
1meg needed for the billiard demo.


375 MAD MONKS DEMO
Mad Monks Demo Disc! Contains.. Superbob Demo, Heavy Metal Demo,
Intro Part and a really funny Anti-St song that made us laugh (alot)
but its not for people without weak stomachs... as digitised retching
sounds might not be up their street... well dont say we didnt warn
you...


376 PROJECT BEAT
Dr Awesome/Crusaders strike again with 'Project Beat' on here are: 
Initial adjustment, Sexual Love Affair, Lone Ranger, Headbanger
Harry, Bomb, Waste My Time, A place I know.


377 HIT ATTRACTION
Digilogics' Hit attraction 1!  Featuring Spijkerhoek(!),Ultimate,
Grandmix, Keep Walking, Enjoy This, Cybernoid 2.Nicely presented too.


378 BLACK MONKS MUSIC
Another neat presentation with the following scores on it, Heaven, 1
moment, First Time, Dont Worry, Alf, Dancing In The Dark, Dont Cry,
Dudehouse Fever.


379 BYTERAPPERS #1
On here are...Dachzun, Realistic, Mixx, Psychosynth, Fast Dried,
8800Bytes, Irviru, Ultima, 64, Gamlo, Paska, Its a Sin.


380 WORLD OF MUSIC
Yet more self-promotion in the form of this disc by Music-Steve who
has put 9 of his scores on this disc including two excellent ones,
Highway to the stars and Shine On 89.


383 WICKED DEMO
Probably


391 PHOTOFILE #1
A digitised slideshow from Photo-file who run a digitising service
from their base in Nottingham.  This disc shows you all the modes you
can get pictures digitised in and what quality you can expect.  Our
digitising service has been temporarily suspended because we simply
dont have the time!  Details of Photofile are also on the disc.


392 PHOTOFILE #2
More slides from Photo-file


395 EXTREME MUSIC #3
Containing the following pieces of music, Broken P, Bfilm, Mood, My
Love, Comp, Sherlock, Action, As Romans Do.


396 CRYPTOBURNERS
Cryptoburners mega-demo consisting of 5 parts of music, graphics and
effects but it wont run on issue 1.3 machines.  Sunrise, Splashing
Bubbles, Snadder Demo, Into The Unknown, End-demo.  Nice music etc.


398 INTROS #17
6 Intros on this disc, Atom Demo IV, 2 Kefrens demos (nice),SOS Sound
Select II (3 tunes, Good Old 64, Arkanoid 2,Technopop), SAE Weapon
Demo (great music) and Accession (but this one doesnt work on 1.3
machines). Good stuff!


399 INTROS #18
6 really good intros on here, Channel 42 (cute!), Crionics Fractal
demo, 1st Wave (nice wavey effects), Hurricane (great music!),
Scoopex (good vectors) and X-Men.  All fine on 1.3 machines although
all external drives HAVE to be turned off.


400 PRODUCT DEMOS
Demos of products.


401 INTROS #19
By far and away the best intros disc we have had in a long while! 
Features the amazing music of the Scoopex Glory Stars demo, the
brilliant Subway Demo, the Wacky Mahoney & Kaktus demo, a complex
Bob-Demo, Crypotburners ace demo and a nice escape Demo.  This really
is the disc to go for!


402 BLIZZARD GAME
Nice playable uridium-style sort of game. Written by a german chap.
Nice music. Thanks to Guido for sending it!


403 FRED HAHN MUSIC
Music from Fred, the great French musician.


404 SUPREME SOUND #1 DEMO
Music, I presume.


405 SONIX JUKEBOX #18
More Aegis Sonix stuff...


406 FROG ANIMATION
The FROG Animation, many may have had this on the cover disc of Amiga
format but this disc has extra sound effects and features for 1meg
owners such as the daft speech done by me, and a few digitised
effects.


407 RAYS PD MUSIC #4
Ray Burt-Frosts PD World of Music Vol 4.


409 AUDIO X
The Crusaders Audio X music Disc.  All music by Bjorn Lynne aka Dr
Awesome.


410 IPEC ELITE
Ipec Elite Music Disc featuring Party Mix, My Dream About You, Now Or
Never, Speech Of Spock Its Row, Ipec Elite and Hot-Mix.


411 LINK MEGADEMO
8 parts combine to form the LINK megademo with a nice combination of
graphics, animation and good quality music.


413 NAVY MOVES
Usually in boats.  Sorry. It's a game demo from Ocean.


414 SOUND ATAX
Magnetic Field's Sound Atax A very nice disc full of very good
quality music and a very nice equalizer routine.  10 Songs.


416 HUEY ANIMATION
The Agatron HUEY Helicopter animation, very nice uses Videoscape to
create shadows as well.  1meg required of course it is by Tobias
Richter.


417 SONIX HOUSE #3
Beatmaster is back, after getting quite a name for himself with 1 and
2, Sonix House 3 is here and this will be the last by Mike Archer. 
Contains Doctor In the House, I Know What Acid is, Do you like
scratching? and HipHouse Minimix.  Great for fans, consistently high
quality stuff from Mike.  (Nice to see you at the show!)


419 PHENOMENA MEGADEMO
The Phenomena Mega Demo the Bob-War continues!  What is the bob war?
well the programmers have been competing to see who can get the most
on screen, this has the most so-far to my knowledge with 200
on-screen! (thats 200 objects).  This mega demo contains lots of
sprite demos as a result but the highlight is the darkened-room only
demo at the end that shows what Elite COULD have been like.


421 RAY-TRACED PICTURES
Adrian Pursers Ray-Trace Graphics.  Adrian has developed his own
ray-trace techniqes and he is currently writing the front-end and
editor for his program.  His actual maths code etc is done and here
are some early results which are very good.  Adrian promises much
more complex graphics and effects in the near future.


422 INTROS #20
Avenger 3D Balls, Complex Heavy Music, Complex, Depeche, Hurricane
(superb), It Solid (very nice) and Tragic Magic (nice!). Great
collection of demos.


423 AGATRON 512K ANIMS
512K users have been somewhat left out in the cold as far as decent
animations have been concerned so to make amends here are some! 
Featuring five animations including two very nice Star Trek Ones, now
512K users can live long and prosper! Animations by Tobias Richter.


424 QUICKSTART A
Great introduction to demos.


425 QUICKSTART B
Quickstart B including The Boing Machine, Demons Demo and some
brilliant music.  Great disc to introduce you to demos..


426 MAHONEY AND KAKTUS
One of the biggest music discs yet, 46 FORTY SIX! pieces of music by
Kaktus and Mahoney in this great demo featuring.. well just about
everything it seems! Lots of things happening... Great!  One of the
most original demos for a long time.


427 TRASH AND TTB MUSIC
More Amiga Music material in the form of this nice music by Trash &
TTB. 6 nice soundtracker songs to humm along to.


429 ALMIGHTY MUSIC #1
Almighty Bill Hensall strikes with his first music disc released into
the 17Bit library.


430 GOLDEN FLEECE
A full adventure game by Jim MacBryne The Golden Fleece, an epic
adventure and it has a real good parser (that means you can type take
everything except the vaseline and rubber hose) Jim Reckons its as
good as anything by INFOC*M why not try it out? Thanks must go to Jim
for submitting it to us!


431 POWERDROME
Game demo.


432 CASTLE WARRIOR
You're a warrior. In a castle. More I don't know...


435 DEADLY JAMMIN'
Yet another music demo, this time by Finnish group Deathstar
featuring 8 pieces of music.  Well put together and it pays more than
a passing resemblence to a certain DOC demo on disc 257.


437 TRACKER INSTRUMENTS
A disc compiled by Allister Brimble featuring dozens of IFF samples
for use in the music program of your choice.  Convert them to Sonix
with Audio- master or Soundtracker using the Preset Editor on
Newsflash July Issue.


438 AWESOME SOUNDS
Music by Dr Awesome (Aka Bjorn Lynne).  Five great tracks all
featuring heavy sampling and the one called DJAJ is indeed AWESOME!


439 MEMBERS ARTWORK
Its been a long time coming but finally its here!  What is it?  It is
'Best of 17bit submitted Artwork' Volume 1!  All crunched files and
some great music by Allister Brimble.  Features artwork by Rico
Holmes, Justin Warren, J Chappel, Andrew Nunn, Stu Collins, Andy
Patrick.  About 36 files, all crunched using the IFFc as featured on
Update 6 so they will not load into Dpaint etc without being grabbed
first.  Includes two superb Ham interlace pictures by Rico that were
over 200K prior to crunching!


440 TRACKER SONGS
A disc compiled by Nigel Fairbanks features 10 classic soundtracker
tunes and some soundtracker utilities such as Rippers and
Song-printers.


441 INTROS MUSIC DISK
A demo-music disc comprising of some nice demos and great music by
Allister Brimble and Stein Giske.  Intros- Crusaders Water Demo,
Spreadpoint, Digitial Wizard Vector balls, Kefrens. Music Heavy
Metal, Labyrinth and September plus 4 by Stein Giske (all internal
sounds very good).


444 COMMS DISK #3
More stuff for modem owners.


445 CASTLE ADVENTURE
Castle Of Doom! An adventure game with graphics more suitable for the
beginner. Simple parser and fairly easy going.


446 COLOUR CYCLE SLIDESHOW
A slideshow composed of purely colour-cycled pictures. 
Colour-cycling is a way of producing simple animation using a static
picture.  There are some stunning examples on this disc, you can also
load them into an art package and see how they are done. Includes,
Squares, Jet, Plane, Tube, Space, Quarix, Mobile, Truck, Warp, Band,
Dinosaur, Jeep and much more.  (20 IFF pictures (most of them are PAL
format so will not load into Dpaint Version 1))


447 JOLYON MYERS MUSIC
`Heart Of The Machine' includes 3 very good music tracks all with
very nice sounds.  Very good.  Done with sonix although its not a
standard disc and so can't be used as a data-disc (which is a shame).


448 CLASSIX MUSIC 1
Music that can only be described as classix.


450 DEMOS/INTRO DISK
4 Demos on this disc, including a great digibox that allows you to
save any of the strange sounds as IFF or RAW data strange sounds
including the Pope!  You can also speed up and slowdown the samples
in real time for a good laugh!  Also included are 3 demos, one by
Vortex 42 and is a very nice wave demo one by Alive which is a nice
line demo.  Also a very strange and clever scroller by Defjam/Silents.


451 SOUND ATAX #2
By Magnetic Fields.  Programming by Rob Hill.  Nice music and nice
presentation.  The first volume went down very well and so will this
I should think!  10 pieces of music.


453 SONIX MACHINE
Another Sonix jukebox, done by Mr Elliot (17Bit member 1403)
comprises of 3 scores all featuring large sampled chunks of music. 
All very well done and handy for any sonix users wanting to create
more or less instant music!


454 GAMES & BITS
Various Games. Includes a really playable of the Arcade game "Qix",
Blue- Moon which is a card patience game, Orbit 3D gravitational
shoot em up!, Wordsearch gives you random word puzzles to
attempt.Asteroids updated version with better graphics than the older
version.  Filling up the space is the marvelous Tree Frog animation
as featured in The One last month.


455 BOPUS POLOPUS
Heres a disc I have had for ages, lost then found again!  It is Bopus
Polopus 1 by Matt `17Bit 6404' West.  All original music by Matt
accompanied by an array of digitised sounds, instruments, film clips
and loonies.  Also included are some neat CLI tricks via the DEL key
and a couple of great animated pointers (well he did win the pointer
comp!)  6 weird and wonderful musical beasties here to pump through
the hifi.. just sorry it took me a while to include it...sorry Matt!


456 ANIMATIONS DISK
4 nice animations on here, and for a change they all work fine in
512K! They're 'TreeFrog' by H Kane, Hammer by M Illingworth, Window
by Cape and Walking Man by S Segal. All very nice 2 ray-traced and 2
animations (.anim files).


458 IT CAME FROM THE DESERT
Its crawled out from Cinemaware and is attacking your screens.  A
great product demo for the already famous unreleased game IT Came
from the Desert! Based on all the classic 50's bug movies get this
and find out what all the fuss is about. Spectacular sound and
animation plus of course a superb intro sequence.


460 INTUITION MUSIC
Containing some very nice pieces of original music.  Again, its
difficult describing this type of disc due to it all being music...
Good though!


462 NIGHLITE MUSIC #2
Nightlite Music 2 from Kefrens, yes another music disc.  We can't
help it if thats all we seem to get sent!!  Anyway features a good
version of Erasure's Circus, yet another Popcorn mix and a version of
Goldrunner plus a great jazzed up greensleeves!


463 GHOSTPOOL ANIMATION
Ghostpool and Amigadrip animations. Two really good animations here,
the first is a 3d pool animation done in HAM and mimics a ghost
playing pool. The second is a water drip that lands in a barrel very
nice ripple effect! Needless to say, its 1meg only.


465 STAMP COLLECTOR
An excellent and very original animation by Dr Gandalf(!) featuring a
small collection of stamps and a magnifying glass.  Quite a long
animation and extremely clever.


466 ARP 1.3
Essential workbench replacement for all Kickstart 1.3 users. Not as
good as Workbench 2.04 though...


470 RAYTRACE SLIDES
Tobias Richter Ray-Trace Artwork Disc 1.  After producing many
animations, Tobias has turned his hand to producing ray-traced
pictures with a German program called Reflections.  The results of
his first foray into ray-traced images can be seen here, and very
nice they are too!


471 DIGITAL FORCE #2
Ode To Ramon 2, after the silly digitised music on disc 195, Techno
Force are back with another downright silly and disgusting disc!  For
all the loons out there!  Good stuff actually, we all like the
Digifanti.


472 CRYPTO MUSIC #1
Cryptoburners Music collection 1 by the Traveller containing his
musical creations over the last year.  Good music here.  About 10
pieces of music.


475 TRACKER INJURY #3
The Outsiders Soundtracker Injury 3.. containing 8 quality
soundtracker pieces of music.


477 DEMOS/INTROS
6 more intros by Alive, Threat, Scoopex, Thr, Setrox and Joy
Division. Plus the superb Rainbow-writer intro creator that was
featured on Newsflash III.


478 SOUND MONITOR V1.0
At last a good quality shareware music creator system that is (unlike
other programs supplied by certain other libraries) PD.  This disc
features Brian Postmas Soundmonitor version 1, a demo of version 2
and a preset editor.  Full instructions and around 20 demo scores. 
Superb for PD, note that you will need disc 479 (100+ instruments!)
to hear the music!! 2 drives are definatly reccomended (but not
essential) as is extra ram.


479 TRACKER INSTRUMENTS
Instrument disc for above, named ST-01 so it can also be used by
Soundtracker users..  Contains around a hundred instruments including
sony drums some great guitars, chords and many effects and samples. 
All in raw data format (NOT iff!).  We highly reccomend you get this
disc if getting the above disc...


480 MARK WILSON MUSIC
Music by Mark Wilson.


481 FIENDISH FREDDY
Game demo.


482 GMC
Thanks to the work of Swedens Andreas Tadic, we are able to bring you
another music editor GMC (Games Music Creator).  This is a new sound-
tracker varient and in some ways manages to be a major improvement. 
100% totally re-written by Andreas it also includes MIDI capability. 
The best feature in some ways is that any samples can be used, IFF or
RAW, and from any disc, no messy preset lists are needed.  Features
include arrepeggio, sliding, filter on/off, speed up/down,
transposing etc.


483 XENON II
A demo of the game Xenon 2, contains half of the first level and
should be enough to convince ANYONE of the sheer quality of this game!


484 M INTELLIGENT
I wish I wasn't doing this.


485 COOL COUGAR
Heres a very nice animation "The Education of Cool Cougar" by Gene
Brawn featuring Bucky Rabbit and Cool Cougar who attempts to catch
Bucky in this cartoon animation layed onto a digitised backdrop. 1meg
only! Created with the Director scripting program.(once again)


488 MARS COP DEMO
Ello ello ello. What's going on 'ere then?


489 WALKMAN MUSIC
A great collection of music by the maestro from the IT demos Walkman
(musician behind the great Metalkeys music).. this disc features 7
tracks, Speakerbuster (brilliant thru the hifi!), Piano Plinker,
Skylight Skippers, Smoke, Jarre Strikes Back, Supabasic II, Hubbard
Top 5.  Great presentation (digital waveforms shown) BUT (yes there
is a BUT!!) it doesnt work on issue 1.3 machines.. SORRY!!! not our
fault!!  For heavy metal fans the speakerbuster is perhaps the best
heavy metal track on the Amiga!


490 RAY TRACED SLIDESHOW
A brilliant slideshow featuring some incredible artwork.. Henk Van
Der Graaf is a Dutchman living in Australia who spends up to 5weeks
at a time creating his `paintings` in medium res 16colours.  The
result is an image as good if not BETTER than an equivalent digitised
image!  Check out the 5 Graaf pictures on this disc, the Joker from
Rico Holmes and the incredible cover to this Newsflash.  Also on the
disc is a great piece of art by Rob Beston and 3 superlative Ham
images grabbed with `Superview`.


491 IMPACT DEMO
Impact Demo featuring a rather nice intro which is lengthy and cannot
be skipped.  After that you are able to choose from 7 very nice songs.


493 ACS SOUNDQUEST
ACS Sound Quest!  Another 7 nice soundtracker scores on this disc..
Blue Monday, Rocking, Bomb the Kaes, Slice Me Nice, Tron, Hunters
Moon and Thats all.. Thanks again to Guido for sending it over..


497 BATTLE SQUADRON
Heres a demo to make your trigger finger itch!  This is a product
demo of "Battle Squadron" which is the follow up to Hybris. 
Featuring full Pal scrolling, twin player simultaneous action, added
horizontal scrolling (as in the game sidewinder). Great sound, great
graphics and probably the most arcade lookalike yet to appear. Time
to oil your joystick methinks...


499 IT MUSIC
IT Music Demo featuring 6 great pieces of music (including some by
Walkman) and some nice touches in the demo.


500 MAGICIAN/JOGGER
Two as yet unseen (as far as we know!) animations produced by a
German chap called Michael Klein.  Includes a fabulous Magician
animation and a Jogger animation. Both have been created in 4096
colours with Sculpt Animate 3D.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


502 JOE SLIDESHOW #2
Superb artwork from this guy!  Contains artwork in a fast loading un-
usable format along with a nice piece of music.  Contains approx 20
pieces of artwork.  One of the better slideshows knocking about at
the moment.


503 RED SECTOR
Red Sector Megademo. This superb demo, on 2 discs (reviewed this
issue) contains the best 3d `ball'  demo yet seen on the Amiga. 
Includes a great variation on the Juggler and helicopters and the
like.  The Demo contains about 10 parts in all and is backed up by
great music and excellent graphics with the vector-balls easily being
the highlight.


504 RED SECTOR
The 2nd disc of the above, not usable without the above.


505 FREEWARE COLLECTION
An excellent disc composed of 17 utilities and tools written by Paul
and his good friend Peter Van Leuvan.  These include Smuscopy, Smus
Info, Makeplay, MakeCopy, Pic View, PicFind, Jump, LVR, Patch Load
Seg, Virus Killer, Virus Hunter, IFF2Ex, ASCII2Ex, Mod2Ex, Modules. 
These do a variety of things such as display info about a smus/sonix
file, prepare a play file for the sonix PLAY utility etc Contains THE
best picture viewer that does all modes etc.


506 POWER SURGE MUSIC
Power Surge Music Disc by Bilbo & Mik.  Excellent Music disc
comprising of 14 Soundtracker tunes: 2B Played Once, MetalWar,
Blayback, Obliterated, DOC Demons, Phenomena, DNS, Photographic,
Echoing, Short But Cruel, E L, Star, Killer Klowns and USA.  This
disk also includes a great intro aswell as a decent play routine a la
Chart Show.


512 SAMPLES DISK #6
70 Instruments (in IFF format) for you to use in your own
compositions courtesy of our music maestro Allister Brimble.  All the
samples are taken from Al`s Kawai K1 and Cheetah MS6 Synths and are
of a very high quality, as any one who has heard Allisters music will
agree.


513 THE GYMNAST
Another brilliant Sculpt-Animate 3D animation.  Features a Gymnast on
the bar, spinning away before leaping of to a perfect landing.  A
must for any 1 meg owners out there.


514 SPACE ACE DEMO
Readysoft`s follow up to the amazing Dragons Lair (remember THE demo
181?) is here and it looks even better than the first! Nearly half a
minute of top notch, near faultless animation from the game.  PLUS
Readysoft have excelled themselves in the compression department as
they have managed to squeeze a whole host of samples in aswell,
including the unforgetable "I`ve only been kidnapped by aliens, thats
all!"  One meg owners get a continous loop of the full demo, Half meg
owners can choose between the first and second parts.


515 PUGGS IN SPACE
Brilliant Demo from the Liverpool based proggrammers. Features Puggs
an ugly red alien on a trip to earth. See him fall from his ship, get
run over, get crushed by a falling helicopter and dance to Michael
Jacko...& more.. Great Graphics, Great Music, Great Animation What
more could you want?


517 PICTIONARY DEMO
"It's a cat. No it's a dog. No it's St.Pauls Cathedral. Ok I give up.
It's a blank disk."


518 MISSION ANIM
These 2 discs require 2 meg (or more) of memory and a hard drive is
recommended. The anim is split into two parts and must be JOINed
together first before running. A basic knowledge of CLI is needed.
(although anyone with 2 megs of memory should have more than a basic
knowledge!!)  This is the Mission Anim, a fighter plane flies down on
a mission to destroy a .... toilet!  Great animation for all of those
lucky enough to have the memory.


519 MISSION ANIM
This is disk two of the above demo.


520 HEAD ANIM
These 2 discs require 2 meg (or more) of memory and a hard drive is
recommended. The anim is split into two parts and must be JOINed
together first before running. A basic knowledge of CLI is needed.
(although anyone with 2 megs of memory should have more than a basic
knowledge!!)  This is the Head anim. Watch as the poor fellow removes
his head and kicks it back into place!!  Another classic animation,
but anyone with less than 2 megs can "koff ome!" (Silly Phrase common
amongst the 17Bit workforce!!!)


521 HEAD ANIM
Disk two of the above demo.


524 MAGNETIC BEATS
Magnetic Beats.  More tunes from the master of Amiga house Mike
"BeatMaster" Archer.  All put together in a simple demo there are
several more Acid/House/Funk tunes for all you ravers out there. 
Even better than his previous disks this rates as some of the best
house music yet on the Amiga.


525 GHOSTBUSTERS II
Play one level from Activisions megabucks film license. The game is
out now so if your interested, try the demo first!


526 D TACK MUSIC
8 tunes by Sebastian Lentfert with the demos coded by Brian Postma. 
More music to get your neighbours angry with!  Acid Mix (Whooo
Yeeaahhh!) New Dimension, Artrun Remix x, Chase, Skybird, Kitavro and
Synthdrum.


529 TOOBIN DEMO
Demo of the game.


530 TV SPORTS BASKETBALL
Cinemaware Basketball Slideshow.  8 Pictures from Cinemawares
forthcoming simulation.  More great graphics from one of the leading
Amiga Developers The game will be coming out sometime in 1990 via
Mirrorsoft, and if this demo is anything to go by, it should be
pretty amazing!  Just to prove 17Bit are THE leading PD suppliers we
actually received this demo BEFORE Mirrorsoft even knew one existed! 
How`s that for speed??!!


531 HIP HOP DISK
One for all you Hip Hoppers out there who are sick of all the
acid/house music in the library.  6 Tunes by Zee (Member 5112) : Hip
House, Lethal, Tek-Na, Funky Kid, Pick Up, Rebel.


532 FUTURE WARS DEMO
Demo of this rather good French adventure game, now available for
CDTV, published by Interplay.


533 INTROS #22
6 More great Intros from some of the top Europpean programmers. 
Demos included are: Storm, Spreadpoint, IT, Scoopex, Armada and
Impact.  People who are easily offended should be careful while
reading some of the scrolltext as some of the coders use "colourful"
language!


535 SCIENCE 451 DEMO
Science 451 Megademo. Another collection of great demos joined
together to fill the disk, this time courtesy of Science 451 crew.  6
parts full of decent graphics, music and scrollers.


536 MECHANICAL MUSIC
Mechanical Music Collection. 7 soothing tunes that`ll have you
thinking you`re back in your mothers womb!!  {(c) Stephen Colbeck
school of silly phrases}  This demo by the Mechanical Minds Inc (AKA
Starray and Rozz) features the following great tunes: Music Lover,
Higher Fields, Drivin`, Steel`n`metal, Magic Chords, No Mercy and Too
Late.


537 IKS MUSIC DISK
8 tunes from the IKS.  Loverboy, Tune 1, Clasifunky, Song3, Tune4,
Nostalgia, Song 4, Lavastream.  Another `triffic music disk backed by
a sooper demo!


539 CLOWNAMANIA
Fun with clowns. I think.


540 CLASSIX #2
More superb conversions of Classical tunes by 17 Bit member Rob
Baxter. All done using Synthia and Amiga internals.


541 AGATRON ANIM #22
Another Star Trek anim from the ultimate trekkie: Tobias Richter, 
The animation, called Approaching, features the main ship spinning
and moving out of the screen, while the other ships continue their
happy life of flying around! Another 1 meg only animation that
continues the high standard of Tobias` work.  Also on the disk is
Binary Flight A scrolling wireframe landscape.


542 AGATRON ANIM #23
BRILLIANT!!! This One meg Star Trek animation features several ships
on a "fleet maneuver" flying around each other on-screen. Another
first class anim for all you Trekkies/animfans/onemegowners out
there!!


543 AGATRON ANIM #24
Kuli. Shock Horror! A Tobias Richter anim that doesn`t involve Star
Trek!! This is an excellent original animation of a pen writing TEVOX
on the screen, the letters then shrink and spin out into the
distance.  Ping-Pong, 2 Star Trek ships fly back and forth across the
screen.


544 STARLINE DEMO
More amazing graphics and music in this 9 part megademo.  Includes a
Sachs piccy of the Amiga`s internals and some nice IFF-Manipulation
in the 7th part.


546 D-MOB MUSIC #3
D-Mob Music disk 3.  Just one demo and one tune on this disk!  But
before you phone the office in utter disgust, the tune is a brilliant
4.5 minute soundtracker megamix and is one of the best Soundtracker
scores we`ve heard!


549 BYTERAPPERS
Another music collection from the byterappers crew.  Songs are:
Arafat is DJFarmer, Badcat part 2, Brira, Megamixer, Nomenklatura
3007DX, Object, Shadows, Speedhead, Tenstahill, The Wind, Tomorrow,
Witch2


550 INTROS DISK #23
Another collection of demos and intros from around the globe!! On
this disk: D-Mob, Level4, Powerlords, Red&Black, Unique and the best
Batdance remix yet courtesy of The Jester Brothers (responsible for
the excellent music in the Puggs in Space demo). Some of the
scrolltext may contain language some people may find slightly,
intermediately or greatly Offensive.


552 INTROS #24
Another 6 demos to thrill and amaze!!!  This time we have offerings
from TommyKnockers, Phenomena, Spectre, Mechanix, Anarchy and a great
bob demo from Animate.


553 INTROS DISK #25
The latest in the series of demo compilations features great demos
from D-Mob, Spreadpoint, Wizzcat, Animate, Arcane and THR.


555 X-OUT
Playable demo of the soon to be released shoot em up from the German
based company. This first level plays very well and the game should
be something to look out for! It's a  sort of underwater R-Type with
loads of extra weapons to blast all the nasty baddies!!


556 THE HOLY GRAIL
The follow up to The Golden Fleece (Disk 430). Good text only
adventure that has you on a quest for..well the Holy Grail! Excellent
parser and very well presented a MUST for all adventure fans every
where! Please note this game requires ONE MEG!


558 OUTSIDERS ACID
3 demos coupled with some great Aciiieed type music, 2nd part
features a freaky dancing man! Good stuff for all fans of this genre
of music.


559 NEWTEK DEMO II
Cue Fanfare... Anyone remember disks 81 & 82? The brilliant NewTek
demo, well here we have the amazing follow up and it's even BETTER
than its predecessor! This One meg only 2 disk demo features some
unbelievable examples of the kind of thing you can produce using
Newteks range of software and Hardware. Theres some great little
animations with synchronised sampled sounds & effects and the first
public showing (we think) of Newteks Dynamic Hi-Res standard, a 4096
colour piccy in Hi Resolution and its gobsmacking!


560 NEWTEK DEMO II
Disk 2 of the Newtek Demo, dont forget you need 1Meg AND 2 drives to
view this stonker of a demo!


561 DEULXE VIDEO 3 DEMO
Features some great effects such as wipes, fades, and digitised
animations! All put together in a very proffesional manner! Aswell as
being of interest to home-video users who may be considering buying
the final version this also serves as a pretty neat example of the
Amigas capabilities!


562 DELUXE VIDEO 3 DEMO
Disk 2 of the DeluxeVideo3 demo, requires the previous disk, One
megabyte (or more) and 2 disk drives to run!


563 AFTER THE WAR DEMO
Pass.


564 INTROS #26
More astounding demos from around the globe!  Included on here are
demos from: SlipStream Uk (Brilliant Street Tuff music "Tell Me
something Ya cant play Bass!!"  Escape, Dtect, Arcadia Copper Demo
(Very Nice effects) THR demo and a demo from LEGEND.  Very good disk
indeed, worth it just for the music on the Slipstream demo!!


565 DEXION MEGADEMO
AT LAST the follow up to disk 271 arrives, another megademo to thrill
and amaze!! Included on this disk are more examples of Amiga
programming at it's best; Elastic Scroll Bounzing Ball Spin Dizzy
Star Wars Green Scroll All parts feature brilliant effects, graphics
and music.


566 ODDS 'N' SODS
A couple of Product demos and some music on here.


567 DEMONS MUSIC #3
Very good music disk from French group The Demons.  Good
presentation, graphics and more importantly 5 great tunes!


568 DEMONS MEGADEMO
Good first megademo from the French outfit.  Several parts that
include various graphical/musical effects and there is also a
different style of shoot-em-up, where you have to blast the zits of
the poor adolescents face!!  Another good disk for all you demo
collectors out there!


569 INTROS #27
8 More Amazing examples of Amiga Programming, with demos from THR,
Anarchy (Weird Scroller), Bloodsuckers (2 Part demo), DMob, Hypnosis,
Legend, Network and Scoopex. Great Stuff!


570 FLASH MUSIC DISK
8 Tunes from Flash Productions, all backed by a decent demo and the
usual scrolly effects!  Tunes are: Live Inside Paula, Tequila
Sunrise, Pissed Off, Terminated, Beyond Darkness, Extend, Headbanger
Zax and Times Of Dawn.
 
<Remastered on 17Bit Continuation>


571 IKS MUSIC #2
IKS Music Disk 2, follow up to Music Disk 1 (you don't say!!)
Features 8 great Soundtracker tunes by the IKS.  Void Vision, Tune
14, Vagu 4, Tangerine, Tune 17, If I could fly, Pure Bit Not Set,
Tune 13.


573 ARCADE MUSIC DISK
11 great tunes for you to blast through the hi-fi.  AciudHouse, Soft
Madrass,  Midi-Lover, Paradise, Sputnic, Red Friday (a rip off of
quite a well known New Order song!)  Confusion, Dream Attack,
Jaeisbaeis & Blabar Remix.


576 DIGITAL CONCERT #2
From FLASH Productions.  Yet another disk from FLASH (these guys must
be really fast coders!)  This time a massive 12 minute 41 seconds
long Soundtracker megamix, very good indeed.  Just the one tune on
the disk, backed by an impressive demo/scrolltext.


577 SUN CONNECTION
The Sun Connection Slideshow.  10 impressive pieces of Amiga Art
backed by a lovely super soothing tune (aaahhh very relaxing!!). 
Includes a few Ray Traced pics (Wooden Dog, Cocktail, White Mouse and
Link) which are brilliant, and also a few "normal" pics:- Weird,
Metal Demon, Mannequin & Donald Duck Rockstar!


578 FRAXION FORGOTTEN REALMS
13 amazing digitised pics of the fantasy genre.  Very good indeed,
especially if (like me) you are into this fantasy RPG type stuff!! 
Backed by a couple of decent tunes and a scrolltext (which you can
turn off if it gets in your way!)


580 VISION MEGADEMO IV
Another masterpiece of Amiga Programming from the guys in Vision.  5
Parts including some great scrolling, equalisers (including a mans
turning head from a recent Norman Cook video!  [We Think]), graphics
and music.


581 EXODUS 3D SHOW
Exodus Real 3D show. 9 BRILLIANT Ray Traced Pictures done using
Exodus' own Real3D utility.  These Ray Traced piccies really are
amazing.  Pics on the disk include: Dumbells, Woodglass, Lantern,
Pencil, Edam, Flower, Goblet Of Balls and an amazing guitar.  A must
for all graphics fans.


582 GATE MUSIC DISK
A nice refreshing change with this disk as it ignores all the usual
styles of Amiga Music (a la SoundTracker) and makes its own slower
paced music. Using really clear well sampled new instruments this is
an ideal disk for those of you who'd like to hear a different style
of Amiga music.  Songs on the disk are: Hipster, SlidePick, Avernus,
Rumppa & Overhud.


583 BUSY BEE ANIMATION
Featured in the library a while back but had to be withdrawn 'cause
of a irrepairable disk error, well thanks to an anonymous member we
have this brilliant animation back in the library, for those of you
who haven't heard about it, this animation features a Sculpt3D
designed Bee flying around (super-smoothly) the screen, hurridly
beating it's wings. An amazing animation for all you one meg owners
out there.  Also on the disk is the tree frog anim.


584 INTROS #28
7 Intros to show off with!  Get those St owners jealous with demos
from BlackMonks (Big Scroller) Complex, CounterForce (Nice Music),
Fraxion MiniMegaDemo (3 Part demo), Phenomena (Gunship sprite),
Public Enemies (Amazing scroll on the 2nd part!) and a demo from
Vix\sion Factory which shows how games like Afterburner should be
done, super smooth scrolling at amazing spoeed, just hit the fire
button and watch those bushes whizz past!


585 INTROS #29
9 More offerings from Amiga Coders from around the globe.  Brainstorm
(Bouncing Ball), Complex (Disk Bobs), Disknet, Poison, Vision Factory
Beast Demo and another brilliant demo from DMob who are putting out
some of the best demos at the moment (even if they are infatuated
with the hideous BatMan Film & Prince song!)


586 INTROS #30
Featuring 5 brilliant Amiga demos:- Ivory, Silents, Silents1, Rebels
and THR with a Pump Up The Jam demo featuring a sampled remix
TechnoTronics recent smash hit single.


587 INTROS #31
6 More great demos to watch and enjoy!!  On this disk are offerings
from: Celtic Good 3 part demo featuring 700 Bobs (??!!!), a
fairground scene and a vectorscroll. Excel, EXCELLENT bob demos
featuring great `balls' - Exodus, spiral scroll Rebels Vector scroll
Red Sector BRILLIANT Follow ME Demo featuring mega GFX and Music!
TPL, Vector demo.


588 PREDATORS MEGADEMO (DISK 1)
An absolutely brilliant 2 disk megademo from these Australian coders.
Features 11 original demos, all linked together, and backed by some
great music!!


589 PREDATORS MEGADEMO (DISK 2)
Disk 2 of the Predators Megademo


590 AGATRON SLIDESHOW #4
Yet more excellent Ray Traced Pictures from Tobias Richters own-made
RayTracing utility REFLECTIONS! 16 very impressive pictures (mainly
on the `Space' theme) that include.  Saturn Rocket, Flying To The
Moon, Space Station, Old Ship, Primary Hull, Starbase 12, Dry Dock. 
There are also some great pictures of the Enterprise and other Trekky
items... including an amazing close up of the Enterprise that took 38
hours to render!!!


591 THE RUN!
(Agatron Animation disk 25) An ABSOLUTE MUST FOR ONE MEG OWNERS!!!
This superb animation has a "Out Run" style view point and features,
in FULL 3D, a cop car chasing a red lotus down the road, both cars
weave in and out of the other oncoming cars (which are also
animated!) Tobias Richter has excelled himself with this one, the
attention to detail is superb, the flashing lights, brake lights,
spinning wheels, shadows, the lines on the road, EVERYTHING! One of
the best, original animations we've seen in a long time.


592 AGATRON ANIM #27
3 More Animations from the master of Videoscape Tobias Richter!  BUCH
A very smooth animation of a book opening it's covers, very nice!! 
PYLON 1 & PYLON 2 2 more Star Trek animations featuring various
Trekky objects flying around!  More good stuff for all you One meg
owners out there!


593 AGATRON ANIMS
Disconnect, a very good Star Trek animation featuring various Start
Trek ships flying round the screen in their own manner.  It's alive a
line drawing of the enterprise comes alive and flys away from the
paper! More great anims for all you trekkies out there!


594 ELVIRA DEMO
Demo of the game of the girl who's big.... in the states


599 MUSIC PARTY 1990
Crypto Burners Music Party 1990, 6 Great tunes backed by a wicked
Vector scroller!  All the music is of a high standard and was
composed using good, original clear samples.


602 CLUB MIX
A mega Seventeen minute house mix by the master of amiga House, the
BeatMaster!


605 DEMONS SLIDESHOW
15 pieces of great Amiga Art by C-Dryk of the French team, DEMONS!
Art on the disk includes:- AmigAmigo, BatLogo (the best yet on the
Amiga & it's handdrawn!), Black, Broken, Castle, Chase, Dragon,
Excalibur, Future, Lamborghini, Monolyth, Orbiter, Present, Space,
Storm.  The slideshow is backed by some great music!  Many thanks to
Billy of Demons for sending it in!!


606 MIRAGE UK MUSIC
10 pieces of soundtracker music, backed by a scrolly demo!  Tunes on
'ere are: Revenge Is Sweet, Shout it Out, Daley, Totally weird,
Headache, New Beginning, It Aint Heavy, Xenon 2.3 (This is BRILLIANT
anyone who hasn't got the game get this disk- the music is AWESOME!),
Synth, Onslaught Mixer.  As usual some of the language used in the
scrolltext may be offensive to some. (i.e. they use lots of swear
words!!)


607 ST BASH
Great PD space invaders type shoot-em-up from a 17Bit member in
Germany (unfortunately you didn't sign your name on the letter, so
whoever you are THANKS!) the aim is to blast your way through 520
levels of St related sprites (spinning ST logos etc), and there are
several various levels of play so you can make the game as easy or as
difficult as you want. With all the available options and great
playability this will keep you amused for quite a while and should
keep your kids quiet for an hour or two!! 


609 SUBWAY MUSIC
SUBWAY music 7 great tunes Clap, N is Nobody, Mr Hyde, Devils
Treasure, N is Somebody, Strom, Dego & Apple Boogie.  The whole thing
is backed by a brilliant spinning globe and features an original
equaliser (Clapping Hands!!)


610 VISION MUSIC DISK
One of the best music disks in ages, features 8 tunes inspiringly
called: Musix1, Musix2, Musix3 etcetera.  Backed by a very impressive
demo (what else would you expect from Vision?)  This disk is
EXCELLENT.  Some people, however, may find some of the language
offensive.


611 VOX DEI MEGADEMO
7 brilliant demos, put together on one disk. Parts include Acid Bobs
and Music, Batman music, Megascroller.. Very well put together indeed.


612 INTROS #32
Another 7 brilliant demos.  We have offerings from Vision (The best
Amiga group??!), DPS2010 (Nice spirally, swirly dots) EXODUS, Factor
4 (Music ripped from Onslaught) No Limits (Mega Music), PowerLords
(XCopy3?) and Introspective.


614 INTROS #33
More brain-rotting intros and demos.


615 CASTLE MASTER
Demo of the 3d Freescape game.


616 KEFRENS DEMO DISK 1
Two disk Kefrens Megademo


617 KEFRENS DEMO DISK 2
Two disk Kefrens Megademo


619 DUAL CREW MEGADEMO
Another fine collection of demos! on here we have a Weird Psychadelic
Colour cycling freak out demo, An original 3D scroller and equaliser,
Nice Dotmania.  A very good disk, 7 parts in total.


621 E-MOTION
Playable demo of U.S. Golds "soon-to-be-released" strategy puzzle
game. 4 levels are on here for you to test out. Looks very good
indeed, ideal for those of you who like to use your old grey matter
rather than just sit down and blast!


624 DEMONS MUSIC
Demons LIVE 4 Music Disk.  A brilliant music disk from French outfit
"Demons", 10 great tunes (selected via the Function Keys) backed by a
great demo!  Extremely well presented, this is one of the best
put-together music disks we`ve seen in a long time.  If you wanna
hear some groovy tunes and clock a great demo at the same time you
know which disk to get don'tcha! Special greetings and Thanks to
BILLY!!


626 COLORADO DEMO
Another demo, of sorts.


627 ROBOT MONSTERS DEMO
Demo of Escape from the Planet of the Robot Monsters. Great game!


630 RAY NORRISH MUSIC
A self promoting Music Disk from would-be games musician: Ray
Norrish, Volume 4 of his works contains:  Electro Party, Roger Rappit
(Bet you can't guess what samples feature in here!), To Boldly Go,
Montage V3.1, Test Flight, Surprise, etc.


634 MUSSORGSKY'S
Mussorgsky's Pictures At An Exhibition Amigafied by Rob Baxter using
Synthia and SONIX.  A two disk rendition of this classic piece of
classical music.  Features: The Promenade, The Gnome, The Old Castle,
Tuilleries Bydlo, The Ballet of the chicks in their shells,
Goldenberg & Schuyle, The Market place, Catacombae and Con Mortua,
The hut of BabaYaga, The great gates of Kiev.  Also features some
background text by Rob regarding the original piece, it's composer
and Rob's Amiga adaptation.


635 MUSSORGSKY'S
Mussorgsky's Pictures At An Exhibition Disk 2 of Rob Baxters latest
Classical Disk.


636 REBELS MUSIC
Tengue, Monotone House, Techno Jazz, Hulky, Coma, Coma End Theme,
Planetarium, Softmegablast, Oldie.  Some great Soundtracker tunes on
here, backed by a rather trendy demo.  Good stuff!


639 SUN CONNECTION SLIDESHOW DISK #2
More brilliant ray traced pictures!  Balls, Metallic, Ladder,
Sculpture, Bridge, GoCart, Face, Box, Pen&Paper, Glass and Vase.  As
with the previous show, these pictures are all of a very high
quality!  Also on here are some 32 colour hand drawn pics: Man, Gun,
Panther, Skull, Earths Core, Raven, Iron Maiden, Hero. 19 piccys, and
a great intro and some supah music!  What more could you want? 
Please note the scrolltext contains words some viewers may find
offensive.


640 IVANHOE DEMO
Another demo.


641 TREASURE TRAP
Trap the treasure.


642 INTROS #32
7 Brilliant demos from the following groups: Abusive (weird!!), Aces,
Fat Boys, Area 08, Beyond, Crionics and Special Brothers (includes
the famous ST animated bird!!).  A good varied selection here..


643 INTROS #34
Yet more great demos for you to enjoy.  Some real corkers from Force,
Homeboy (MEGA Bobs!!), Link (The Journey A superb demo), Pheonix
(1300Bobs??), Science 451, Slipstream (The garfield demo, features
several digi pics of Garfield!!), TeamX.


644 INTROS #35
This compilation features what could easily be described as THE BEST
AMIGA DEMO!  The Red Sector Cebit 90 demo, features loads of Vectors,
Bobs, GFX, scrolltext and a brilliant soundtrack.  There's also 2
great demos from Techno Flight (featuring a fullscreen scroller and
some massive filled vectors), a Unicorn demo (featuring a brilliant
picture of, yep you guessed it a Unicorn) and Team X.


646 SERIOUSLY GOOD MUSIC DISK #2
A collection of 3 tunes composed by Bill Turner.


647 SERIOUSLY GOOD MUSIC DISK #3
2 more tunes from Bill turner, firstly we have the seriously funky
and one of my all time Amiga fave's, I Need Your Loving, this track
just oozes quality, some awesome instruments and a great tune, no one
can fail to like this it's a masterpiece!  Also on the disk is Ode To
My Printer another dancey track with some nice drums!  Definately a
disk for fans of good music, and for those who prefer quality to
quantity. 


649 MAGNETIC FIELDS
More great Amiga music backed by a great little demo!  Press each of
the ten function keys for a tunette: BloodMix Radiator Blues Fresh
House Beloved Remix 64 Song Jolly Jogger Oldun Sowd Orf Time
Traveller - Wotyawant.


651 SCOOPEX MENTAL HANGOVER
An absolutely BRILLIANT demo disk featuring some beautiful graphics,
music, bobs, vectors, scrolling etc.  This reaaly is one of the best
Amiga demos ever, beats Red Sector, and sets the standard for others
to meet... People should be warned .. that "F" word  that I'm not
allowed to say is included on screen so 9 year olds or their parents
should stay away!


652 DARKNESS MEGADEMO
A nice megademo containing various parts which are accessed by moving
a helicopter round with your stick! As usual you can find loads of
nice graphics and sound aswell as some new original ideas!


653 TURRICAN
Preview version of Rainbow Arts latest (and greatest?) game. 3 levels
taken from the game, run around blasting the enemy, collect crystals
and extra weapons. A great PLAYABLE demo of a great game NOT AN ST
PORT! Excellent Gfx and sonix and it's really playable.


654 BLOODSUCKERS MUSIC
A-Cid!, Execution, Megablast, Systematic, TechnoBurner, Kill 'em All.
A groovy disk where no one style has the monopoly.  We've the
standard houseyhousey styles, a bit of techno and some RAW METAL!  YO
Rick "Dood" Lemon can chill out and get his brother in ecstasy to
this one, screaming guitars a go go!  Is this the first true Amiga
heavy rock??


656 MANDLEBROT SLIDES
The Mandlebrot Slideshow By 17Bit Member Anjum Khan.  15 generated
Mandlebrot screens for every one out there who is "in" to this
particular aspect of Amiga graphics. Some of the screens look
nice`n'arty in their own right!  Backed by an Allister Brimble score.


657 FRAXION REVENGE
6 rather gruesome animations from these Norwegian sickos!! Watch
various decapitations, Shotgun blasts, chainsaw hacks etc!! Not
really for the too squeemish (though they are only animated sprites
NOT digitised images) this one is quite funny to watch at fast speed
after a couple of bevs.


658 INTROS #36
8 more new demos that show off the Amiga!  As usual all these feature
great Music, graphics and new programming effects!  Demos on here by:
Abandon, Cave, Dual Crew, Kefrens, Mayhem, Prime Evil, Special
Brothers and another offering from those prolific parchments at
Vision!


659 INTROS #37
Yet more cool offerings from some great Amiga coders!  Anarchy (Nice
Bobs), Celtic, Fatboys, WarFalcons, System 5 and star of the Disk
REBELS COMA DEMO.  A great Acid track backed by some wird and
wonderful effects including a dancing mannequin, this is an excellent
demo!


660 INTROS #38
9 great demos: Animate, Bloodsuckers, Cult, D-Mob, Elite, Mahoney &
Kaktus, Mayhem, Area 08 & Wizard (which features a very good
rendition of Bruce Hornsby's That's the Way It Is) As is to be
expected all the demos are of a very high standard.


662 TIME CIRCLE
A Brilliant disk full of tunes mostly composed using the Amigas
internals, with over 30 tunes, there's too many to list here, but the
disk does include a large number of classic C64 conversions.


663 END OF CENTURY #2
Is it December 31st 1999 or is it December 31st 2000. That's what I
want to know..


664 RESOLUTION 101
No, not from the United Nations, it's a demo of a 3d game.


667 INTROS #39
7 great intros from Area 08, Crusaders (nice music), Disknet (Again
nice music/equaliser), Dreams Of Power, Spreadpoint, Avoid and a
great demo from Level 4.  Younger viewers, or those easily offended,
should be warned this disk, as most other intros, contains language
in the scrolltext that may cause offence.


669 CRUSADERS MUSIC
7 brilliant pieces of Amiga music by Dr Awesome (Tied Up etc) and
Fleshbrain.  Score titles are: Who Knows, 12th Warrior, Kilimanzaro,
No-One Home, GraveYard and the absolutely amazing Make Your Move
which is WELL FUNKY!!!  An excellent music disk!


670 SLIDESHOW DISK #24
A slideshow that contains possibly the best Amiga digitised pics
ever! All weigh in at a whopping 140K each, these 5 pictures are
almost faultless.  We have 3 cars (a rather nice red Porsche 930, a
Jaguar Xr7 and a Bfg?  Sorry I'm no car expert I dunno what car this
is supposed to be.)  A pic of a Brand new Honda racing bike and a
Hornet plane. Also on the disk is 2 pictures By 17Bit member  Gary
Tower; smiley and a rather luvverly Ray Traced extravaganza that took
58 hours to render, and jolly nice it is too!


672 CUSWORTH MUSIC #2
More Sonix music By Nic, would've gone on his previous disk had there
been enough room.


673 MAGNETIC BEATS #2
More great house/Acid tunes from the legendary BeatMaster (Aka Mike
Archer) featuring ten original dancefloor type trax (laced with
samples) these tunes will have you dancing the night away... 
Time2Bass, Bamm, DanceXTC, Infrastructure, Funk-E, Time Cube, Acid
(remix), The New Style, Techno Journey, Pacific Beat.  Great stuff
for AcidHeads.


674 MAGNETIC BEATS #3
Mike Archer spends 3 weeks away from work making more Amiga Acid
music than anyone thought possible... here is Magnetic Beats 3!  Yet
more pulsating, gyrating house tunes to blast through yer hi-fi Let
It Be House, Bass Generator, Future, As It Grooves, Dream Warrior,
Acid Nation, Jaxya, Ride Me.


675 CLUB MIX #2
Another pan-galactic megahousemix featuring oodles of sampled
delights all strung together in one ginormous mix.


676 DEEP FRY THE SKY
A disk full of original musical scores by 17 Bit member William
Hensel. On here we have: Density, Rock'N'Roll Blues (dig those
pianers), Cigar Smoke, Total Frog Syndrome, Deep Water (My fave just
oozes atmosphere, a must for any one feeling slightly sad or down,
just turn off the lights, whack this through your hi-fi, lay black,
close your eyes, tune in and dream....), WitchDoctor & Deep Fry The
Sky.  A brilliant original disk, that most people should appreciate,
if anyone doesn't like Deep Water I want to know why!


677 CLIP ART DISK
Thanks to the new look Photofile we have a disk containing various
images for you to cut out and use in your own documents.  These B&W
images are intended mainly for DTP use (Proff. Page etc) but can also
be used within any standard art package as all files are standard IFF
format.  The disk covers various subjects from Cartoons, Flowery
Fonts, Logos, flags etc.


678 THUNDERSTRIKE
Demo of the game.


679 INTROS #40
Featuring 6 new demo's from various crews, including the ACON HAM
demo (very nice plotted hold and modify demo), the DOPE intro maker
(as featured in CU) this allows you to create your own small intro's
complete with scroll text, starfield, and the music of your choice. 
The Fraxion Chase 1930 demo, which is very original and professional
featuring a novel car chase sequence, all rounded off with an amusing
end. A KEFRENS multipart demo, REBELS copper wave effect demo and the
Venom blue water demo complete with checkerbord sequence.


680 INTROS #41
Yet more lovely demos compiled onto one disk, this time featuring the
CRYPTIC filled vectors demo which is very nice indeed accompanied by
some great music, The ERRORS fractal graphic demo with a novel way
showing those endearing fractal graphics which people seem to love,
NETWORKS NEW DEMO, A small intro from the POWERLORDS, with a nice
mountain effect and forward letter scroll, SCOOPEX elephant demo with
multi coloured filled vectors and nice muzacs as well and last but
not least the VIOLENT WAVES spiralling bobs demo (very hypnotic).


681 WARFALCONS MEGA DEMO
Very reminiscent of the SCOOPEX Mental Hangover, but in my opinion
takes it a stage further.  Features the most beautiful filled vectors
I've ever seen (also the largest), all accompanied by some superb
music, watch and die.


682 GIANTS MEGADEMO DISK #1
Yet another 2 disk mega demo very similar to most other 2 diskers but
still quite good, features 14 parts in all.


683 GIANTS MEGADEMO DISK #1
Disk two of the above demo.


684 FRACTAL FLIGHT DEMO
Fractals take on a new perspective with this new flight demo (As seen
in CU, Amiga Format etc), it's all very afective and seems to work
better with 1 megabyte of ram. Gives the effect of flying through
mountains at great speed. Full instructions are given on the disk.


685 KEFRENS MUSIC JUKEBOX
SLL from Kefrens puts 8 of his music masterpieces onto a well
presented disk, graphically good, sonically awesome, and a must for
any music fan.


686 INTROS #42
Contains 4 parts which are: DISKNET confused lines demo, with some
very catchy music , AMAZE demo complete with real time oscilator and
good music, SILENTS BLUE HOUSE demo, a four parter in one load, and
finally the SPECTRALS NATIVE DIPSOMANIA filled vectors demo.  All
wicked stuff!!!!!


687 CRYONICS MEGA DEMO
Only 3 parts but still superb worth 2 quid for the last Maddona part
which is very novel and original, an esential disk for all demo
collectors


691 PHOTO MONTAGE 3
From Seven Towers PD (Or Mr Utopia to his friends) who used to
produce those ever so naughty disks.  He now turns his talents to
digitizing various photographs, this time 15 in all which are up to
the usual standard of Montage 1 and 2.


692 BRAINWAVE MUSIC DISK
6 tunes in all with a very good version of True Faith from New Order.


695 GOLEMS GATE SLIDESHOW
Another graphic slideshow this time with original drawings,
accompanied by good music and the option to go backwards or forwards
in the slide- show, all pictures have a role playing feel.  All
Graphics hand drawn NOT Digitised!


697 INTROS #43
Featuring AURORA loveley vector bob demo, XENOMORPHS animated bob
demo, DUAL CREW bouncing logo demo, yet another vector demo from
KEFRENS, the CRUSADERS cycadelia demo and finally the REBELS three
stage demo.


698 FLASH MUSIC DISK
4 tunes or remixes with KEEP BUSTIN, THE POWER, KAOS, and TOUCH ME
All sound really good and the disk is well presented aswell.  All
tunes up to the usual flash productions standard.


701 DMASTER HELP DISK
All the help you've ever needed for DMaster.


702 AMOS PD
Disks 3, 4 and 5. These 3 Amos PD disks have been copied onto one
disk to give you a massive FONTS disk.  Contains 43 standard Amiga
fonts of various styles and sizes to use within your AMOS programs
(or in Dpaint etc.) Also on the disk is an AMOS Program that, when
run, will display all the fonts from the disk!


703 AMOS PD
Featured on this disk are various AMOS programs to convert STOS files
(samples, sprites, pictures etc) into AMOS format.  There are loads
of STOS files on here ready to convert.  Requires AMOS,
non-autobooting.


704 AMOS PD
Music And Instruments.  A collection of GMC Scores And Instruments to
use within your own AMOS programs (or GMC, Soundtracker etc) 
Contains 32 original scores and 49 sampled instruments.


705 AMOS PD
More PD for AMOS users


706 AMOS PD
More PD for AMOS users


707 AMOS PD
More PD for AMOS users


709 AMOS EXTRAS DISK
The new 3rd disk that now comes free with AMOS, contains several very
handy tools, utils and data.  Features: Configuration Program, Sprite
Grabber, Amos Map Editor, Menu Editor, RAMOS Enables your AMOS
programs to run independantly, Sprite Editor, Amal Editor, Amal
Monitor, A Shoot-em-up, A scrolly demo, 600 Sprites and various
accesories.


710 BUDBRAIN DEMO
The BudBrain Demo Disk, One of the best demo disk for a long time,
not in a programming sense, but for the original ideas, and great
graphics. Features a 3 part Burglary Movie, A rather silly SQUEEZE
animation and a thumping Acid track/Video called KAOS (Better than
COMA!!) Please note we could not put the second disk of this demo
into the library as it contains very offensive & perverse cartoons.


711 SUN CONNECTION SLIDESHOW #3
Another brilliant disk from the French group.  20 pictures, all of a
very high standard.  Again, the SC follow their earlier disks with a
mixture of Ray Traced and hand drawn pictures.  Backed by a nice
piece of music.  Thanks and Hi to Geronymho for sending it in!


712 AMIGADEUS
A brilliant disk by the master of classical conversions Rob Baxter. 
This has to be the best classical disk in the library and features a
remarkable conversion of Mozarts Eine Kleine NachtMusik. (Allegro,
Romanze, Muenuetta & Rondo) and the Horn Concerto.  As these are some
of the most famous classical pieces, this disk is not restricted to
Classical fans, everyone must be familiar with these tunes, so go on,
buy this disk and treat yourself to some culture!  Many Thanks to Rob
for sending it in!


714 RSI GALWAY MUSIC
The Red Sector Martin Galway Music Show.  More whiney whiney, plinky
plinky, C64 conversions that are virtually the same as the the
original. Tunes on here are from Yie Ar Kung Fu (9), Comic Bakery (6)
and Green Beret (7), backed by a very nice demo (well what do you
expect from Red Sector?) Fans of 64 music (and I know there are loads
of you out there) will love it, but personally I hate it.  To me it's
just another disk that proves a 400 Quid Commodore Computer can
produce the same music as a 150 quid Commodore Computer.


715 SENSITIVE RABBIT SLIPPERS MUSIC DISK
7 Sonix Scores spread over the 2 disks: Groove Bastard Slide, Brooke
Shields Remix, Thanks, Watch Your Step, Brimble, you on earth yet? 
To all the girl I loved before (I chopped her up) Mission Impossible.
All the scores are very original, fresh, exciting, different and
groovy.  Fans of C64 conversions and 4 Bar Soundtracker a la 101
demos will hate it.  Every one else should love it.  I do.  All tunes
and Cinemawaresque disk routines by Nic Cusworth.


716 SENSITIVE RABBIT SLIPPERS MUSIC DISK 2
Disk two of the music demo.


717 CASP MUSIC
4 tunes sent in by 17 Bit Member 'Casp' who was responsible for the
famous Batdance remix.  On here we have Moon Machine (a groovy tune
composed on TechnoCyberTracker), Eleven (Scratch, Sniff and dance.),
Arnie2 (He ain't heavy...) and KENWOOD (this one's a really good MIX,
eh eh geddit?)  Thanks CASP, this is a great disk.


718 FRACTAL SLIDESHOW
A Black Dog Production.  12 Pictures of Fractals, mountains,
landscapes etcetera.  Again some quite trendy techno, Acid "Art" on
here. Backed by a great piece of music.  Thanks for sending the disk
in guys!


719 SYNTHIA 2 DEMO
Demo of the synthetic instrument creator.


720 ENERGY MUSIC
10 Soundtracker Scores backed by a decent demo.  Music By CFS and
BackLash of energy.   One of the better Soundtracker music disks of
late.


721 DISORDER MEGADEMO
Several parts featuring the usual array of bobs, vectors, scrollies,
music etc.  Quite a good disk.


722 AMAZE MUSIC
Quite an awesome collection of 56 (yes, thats FiftySix) Pieces of
music, backed by a demo.  Obviously the one to go for if Songs per
pence is what you're after!  Most of the tunes are quite good aswell,
and there's a long play option.


723 INTROS #44
Demos from the follwing groups: Advance, PMC, Mute101, Special Bros,
Addonic, Factor 4, Disknet and Gate.  Some great demos on here,
including some wicked Copper effects!


724 INTROS #45
Ten Intros to chill out to.. THR, Kreator, Paradox (Billiant Beach
Volley demo), Hypnosis, THR2, Amaze, Cryptic, Phenomena, Dual Crew
and Dexion. Once more these are all of a high standard.


725 OPERATION STEALTH
Demo of the game, from the authors of Future Wars.


726 INTROS #46
6 Great demos.. Bloodsuckers Vectors, Dictators, Network, Proton,
Rebels and Vertigo.


727 GARY TOWER SLIDES
A dozen screens by Gary Tower, The man behind the Loading screen for
Update 14, and the chrome font of U13. All the pictures on this disk
are Ray Traced and are very good.. Highlights being the F-15 image,
Palace, Tilt, and an original 17 Bit Logo.  A very good disk. Thanks
to Gary For sending his art in!


731 SIDNEY & FRIENDS UTILITY DISK
Excellent Utility Disk featureing SID a directory Utility, Newzap,
VirusX, QED, PPShow, Powerpacker, PPMore, PPrefs, & DMouse as well as
a clock and Iconmaster, Plus all documentation.


732 BADLANDS DEMO
Gosh. Another demo.


733 SCCOPEX (BEAST)
Scoopex have taken the music from Beast and made it into a demo,
using the joystick you select the tape which you would like to play,
there is a choice of 12 soundtracks, very well presented.


734 AGATRON SLIDESHOW
Some more pictures from the mind of Tobias Richter


735 AGATRON ANIM #34
3 animations in all, all of them based upon Star Trek, featuring an
anim where Kirk and Scotty are on board a shuttle heading for the
Enterprise.


736 AGATRON SLIDESHOW #10
Another of Tobias' works of art, again trekkies will love this disk,
more of the same, will they ever stop, lets hope not.  Again very
good quality.


737 D-MOB #4
6 pieces of `get on down' music, once again from D-Mob the quality
and production are top notch!


738 D-MOB #4
Disk two of the above demo.


739 NIC CUSWORTH REMIXES
More of Mr Cusworths Outlandish Music, if you got any of his first
disks and like them, the chances are that you will most likely like
these as well.


740 NIC CUSWORTH REPRISE
2 more of Mr Cusworths tunes to titilate your fancies.


741 INTROS 47
More Intros to help you through the night, featured heavily on this
disk are the Dual Crew with 3 Intros out of the seven.  Others
featured are Deja-Vu a new group, Anarchy, Celtics and last but by no
means least Cinefax.  Anarchys' Dot Demo II has to be seen to be
believed, truly awesome!


742 PSA MUSIC
8 pieces of music to make you earlobes pulse with palpitating
pleasure. These guys are Professional Sound Artists hence PSA and the
music featured on this disk has featured on commercial software.


744 INTUITION MEGADEMO
Another megademo, this ones by Intuition and features a
multi-scrapper routine that doesn't use the blitter.  Don't they know
that *no-one* ever uses the blitter for this? No, probably not. The
other parts of the demo have been presented well also.  The music is
breathtaking and atmospheric.


746 BIONIX
By Mirage a shoot em-up for aimless fun, if you've got the odd 5 to
10 minutes to spare at the end of the day get this disk so that you
can play. Not bad eh!  I'm a poet and i know it.


747 FIGHTER DEMO
Sculpt and Animate 3D combine to bring you this demo, nice little
demo to be proud of showing, not the best in the world, but
definetely not the worst by a long chalk.


748 MED V2.01E
Brilliant, anyone who is faintly interested in music should have this
disk, it incorporates most of the things you will need and some you
may need, MIDI for example, we couldn't recommend anything as highly
as this disk.


749 THIS AND THAT (HACK ATTACK)
A collection of utilities and a game compiled for us by Gary
Henderson. Good Stuff, recommended


751 BATTLE COMMAND
Game demo.


752 BILLY THE KID DEMO
No idea.


753 ZENITH SOUND DISK
7 Very nice musics to get your feet tapping, the music track that
stands out most though is noe entitled strange, it certainly lives up
to its title.


754 WHATEVER NEXT UTILS
Another compilation of utilities by the gentleman they call Gary
Henderson, some more excellent utils on here including Zap, Xoper and
BootBlockChamp amongst others.  Very good.


755 SILENTS, THE SOUND OF SILENTS
7 more toons by the silents, this disk is good, and when I say good I
mean good.  The music is very strange and weird, but is compelling to
listen to and after about 3 seconds your hooked.  The selector is
very good.  With different graphic images for each toon.  Highly
recommended.  The space song is utterly crucial!


756 CRIONICS `NEVERWHERE'
Yet another megademo from Crionics this one probably being their best
to date.  The rotating pyramid counting down to the start of the demo
is excellent, and thankfully the rest of the demo lives up to the
start. Briliiant.


757 INDY 500 DEMO
Demo of this awesome game..


759 GAMES GALORE
Gary Henderson has yet done it again, this time it's a games disk. 
There are quite a few games on here inc. TicTacToe, Daleks,Othello &
Chess.  Also on this disk in a derivative of Shanghai called Tiles. 
The games are quite simple but the fun element is there.


760 UP & RUNNING
Gary Henderson is back with a vengeance.  Another of his excellent
utility disks.  This disk includes the disk-opti utility amongst
others.  All utilities on here are of the same high calibre.


762 STEALTHY II
The comical antics of a stealth fighter bomber annoying a Russian Mig
21 or is it a Mig 29.  Excellent.


763 CLIPART FONTS
24 more screens full of Clipart Fonts, some very nice fonts on here
folks.


765 HOUSE SAMPLES #1
Rock da house da Beatmaster is here to make all you groovers out
there gyrate in ecstasy.  There are 94 housey type samples.


766 HOUSE SAMPLES #3
Accccceeeeeeiiiiiiddd!  yowsers, more of those funky get on down
noises only da Beatmaster can assimilate (weren't expecting that word
was ya!) a massive 109 samples of dis disk.


767 HOUSE SAMPLES #2
Only the Lord Jesus Christ knows why sample disk #3 comes before #2,
maybe it was something we said or did, who can tell.  But it doesn't
really matter for there is a whopping, wait for it, wait for it, 118
samples on this disk, phewwwww!


771 ADVENTURE HELP
GO SOUTH PICK UP BUCKET STAND ON THORIN SAY TO THORIN "GO NORTH" and
so on....


772 BURNING INDEPENDANCE
Good little music disk, 6 tracks to choose from all of a high
standard, a nice graphic of a keyboard showing the notes that are
being played.


773 CAVE SYNTHETIC POWER
10 more pieces of music to mull over and enjoy.  Nothing absolutely
outstanding but all of the toons are enjoyable.


774 INTROS #48
Oh no not another intro disk, we here you say well this one have 5
intros all of a high standard, featuring Kefrens, Cascade and the
Dexion `Turtle Demo'.


778 MUSIC UTILITY DISK #4
Excellent disk featuring Octalyzer, Noisetracker V2.1, Intuitracker
and 2 other Utilities, definetely worth a look this one.


779 E.S.A. UTILITIES #1
35 Utilities on this disk to help you through these sleepless nights.
For some of the Utilities on here you will find full documentation.


780 THE EXORCIST
A disk compiled by Gary Henderson (which proves you can't keep a good
man down) with a collection of workbench hacks, virus killers and
comms software, namely NComm.


781 GAMES GALORE VOL #2
Another compilation by Gary `the insomniac' Henderson featured on
here are Welltrix & Blue Moon.


782 DUNGEON MASTER THE SOLUTION
This classic game has been knocking around for quite a while now, and
for those who still can't get to grips with it is this disk.  Full of
hints and tips plus maps to the whole dungeon, Superb.


783 FLEECE SOLUTION
Remember disk 430 `The Golden Fleece' well here's the solution to
this extraordinary PD adventure.


784 BOWL V2
10 Pin Bowling Archiver, anyone who plays this game should have this
disk, invaluable.  Very very good, written by Mark Ward.


785 OPTI-UTILS #1
The Optimist presents the only utility disk you may ever need, 30
utils on here ranging from Taskcontrollers to the Latest version of
Dirmaster (V3.0), Utterley Brilliant.


786 NEWTRONS MUSIC BOX
Well the only thing that stands out for me is the music as nothing
else catches the imagination.  The funny heads part of the demo is
well digitised and animater.  Ok I suppose.


787 WARFALCONS MUSIC DISK
The Warfalcons music disk may only contain 5 pieces of music but by
god they are good and all the toons are original.  All of the music
is by Mantronix, so you would expect to hear high quality toons
anyway.


788 WRATH OF THE DEMON
Demo of the game (now available for CDTV)


789 TWISTERS EARWAX COLLECTION
9 more toons brought to you by Anarchy, a good selection of quirky,
stylish, original, up tempo, bouncy toons.


790 TOBIAS RICHTER ART
Are you into art, boy, well feast your eyes on these disks, cause you
wont want to close them after you've seen these babes.  We couldn't
recommend these disks highly enough, once you pick these disks up you
will never let them lie.


791 TOBIAS RICHTER ART
Disk two of the above demo.


792 GARY TOWER ART DISK
Wow!  More super artwork to give you the willies, absolutely brill,
more of the same please Gary.


793 JAZZBENCH
If you find that Workbench is a pain and only goes so far.  Then you
will be needing this disk, basically it is a souped up version of
workbench, with most items you will need being displayed on drop down
menus.


794 GOLDFIRE MEGADEMO
It certainly makes a change to see an English group being mentioned
namely Goldfire, as this is their first megademo it is quite good,
the music is a different matter as it is superb.


795 BATTLEFORCE V3.6
Have you ever wished you were a 60 foot tall robot with awesome
weaponry, funnily enough I haven't either but now you can become one
with this game, this game puts you in an arena to play certain combat
games, highly enjoyable.


798 OZONE
Hurry while it lasts...
No, seriously though folks, this is an excellent collection of disk
utilities.


802 MAGICIAN 2.0 ANIMATION
A vastly improved version of the already spectacular magician demo.
Features a superbly ray-traced magician juggling chrome spheres in
the center of a circus ring.  This disk is fantastic!


803 NIGHT THOUGHTS
"Ummm. I'm tired".. Or something like that.


804 MASTER VIRUS KILLER IMPROVED VERSION
Anyone who has previously suffered from a virus will no doubt now
have countless numbers of virus killers which all cure different
viri.  This disk however, is the ONLY virus killer you will need
which recognises and destroys viri others dont, even file viri.


807 FLIGHT ANIMATION
This disk features an incredible animation of a jet fighter taking
off, flying about and then landing again on its home runway.


808 NEW STEALTHY ANIMATIONS
3 more stunning animations of our intrepid hero 'Stealthy'.  Featured
on this disk are AGGRESSOR, SOVIET SOFT LANDING and STEALTH BOMBER. 
This animations are BRILLIANT!


809 TOBIAS ANIMATIONS
Another of Tobias Richters impressive animation disks.  This time,
surprisingly, nothing to do with Star Trek but 2 spectacular
animations of WWII dogfighting.


812 KATHARSIS MUSIC DISK
A collection of 7 nice tracks of music compiled by Katharsis. 
Complete with scrolly message, an origanal starfield?!? and an easy
menu selector.


813 BLOOD SUCKERS MUSIC
Music from, wait for it, Blood Suckers!


814 FRAXION SLIDESHOW
Graphics from Fraxion.


815 ENSIGNIA GAME
This disk features an superbly playable Airwolfy cavern type game,
the object of which is to find and destroy 4 escaped convicts.  A
small but good demo has also been included on this disk.


816 SUBCULTURE
The first level of the game Subculture by Kevin Kendal.  A
horizontaly scrolling shootem up of which the final version is
available from kevin himself.


817 NOISEPLAYER V3.0
Red sector offers you the chance to play just about any module from
any sound system E.G soundtracker, noise tracker etc, as a background
task.  It could come in quite usefull when there are lots of letters
to write and the sound of silence annoys you.  All in all a very good
utility.


818 INTROS #51
Seven demo's all picked by Mr Bun so you know your onto a surefire
winner, all the latest crews are there and even some new ones trying
to burst on the scene, it's all clever stuff and really shows what
your amiga can do. Remember these are just not any old demo thrown
onto a disk, only the best gets past THE BUN!


819 INTROS #50
Yet another intro's comp(where do they all come from), all the latest
stuff from Kefrens, Red Sector, and Silents to make your Amiga
explode with Joy & Glee, all superb stuff.


820 BUDBRAIN II
The Budbrains are back with their follow up demo to disk 710 in our
library, contains an amusing Crionics mickey take.  Lots of good
music and 68000 effects that firmley endorses that Budbrain are one
of the top demo creators of our time.  Watch out for them.  Certainly
one for your demo colection.


821 HUSSAIN 'V' MAJOR
What can you say about the Iraq demo from the Animators except it's
very funny,very topical,and very outragous, an original demo that
deserves to be top of the charts.


823 CRUSADERS MUSIC DISK
Another excellent Crusaders music compilation by Fleshbrain and Dr.
Awesome. 7 excellent tracks for you to swing your pants to.


824 CRIONICS TOTAL DESTRUCTION MEGADEMO
The very latest addition to the 17-Bit library and one of the best
megademos to date.  This disk features some awesome graphics handling
routines and some amazing backing music by Deftronics.


825 ULTIMATE FX
By Goldfire, another megademo of quality and note, excellent music.


827 GAMES GALORE #3
Another excellent compilation of games from 17Bit member Gary
Henderson, classics such as Ping Pong and Asteroids.


832 HORIZON SLEEPING BAG DEMO
Brilliant self-running megademo, featuring some excellent filled in
vectors and real foot tapping, head nodding music.


834 INTROS #52
More great intros, including a good 2 player game of snow balling(?).
Plus an absolutely superb true 3D demo of the Cryptoburners.


835 INTROS #53
4 more intros of outstanding quality, all of them feature amazing
graphic routines.


836 FANTASY FORCE MUSIC
Music by Jollosk and Jake the Snake.  9 tracks in all, all of which
are very good.


837 GAMES GALORE #5
9 more games for the Gary Henderson stable, featuring amongst others
Monopoly, Trek-Trivia and a good Sokoban style game.


838 TRIAL AND ERROR
Utils from the main man himself, yes, Gary Henderson,  Loads of
useful programs.


841 GAMES
A collection of 11 simple game ranging from 4 in a Row to Black-jack.
Very good value.


849 CHAOS ROCK
Colour cycles Mandlebrot sets at their finest, includes some very
atmospheric and at times haunting music.


863 DPAINT ANIMS
Some more wonderful anims for Deluxe Paint.


864 ANIMATION DISK 3
6 more of Steves cutesy DPaint animations to amuse you with.


866 COMMAND.COM
Very useful utility, as it makes the DOS commands internal therefore
making life that much simpler.


874 ACME MEGADEMO
A novel idea. A sequence of Amiga demos put on a disk.


875 CULT MEGADEMO 2
Another excellent megademo from the guys at Cult, very good filled
vector routines and a funny advert on why not to drink and drive.


876 FLASH NO PAIN, NO GAIN #1
Another very good 2 disk megademo featuring some outstanding music as
well as some excellent effects, Disk 1


877 FLASH NO PAIN, NO GAIN #2
Disk 2 of No Pain No Gain


878 DIGITAL DEBUSSY VOLUME #2
Two works of art, faithfully reproduced by Rob Baxter, featuring
Arabesque as well as La Fille aux Cheveux de Lin.


882 SYSTEM VIOLATION
Another awesome effort by the very talented Anarchy group.  Superb,
and if you guys are reading this, keep up the good work.


886 CYPRUS MUSIC DISK
Nice music disk featuring 5 tracks of various quality.


889 TOBIAS SLIDES #12
More superb artwork from the maestro himself, and yes you may have
guessed already, they're based on Star Trek.


890 GAMES GALORE #4
Good collection of new and old games on here to play and have hours
of fun with.


892 FILLET OF FISH
Mighty animated demo of an alien fish (?) that is exiled to Earth, by
the way this fish loves to party!


893 IMAGES FROM AQUARIUS
Superb new world type art, I'm not into this stuff myself but I
thought they were excellent.


894 MASTER VIRUS KILLER
Version 2.1 of this brilliant virus killer, which is now better than
ever.


895 GODS
The latest offering (heh heh!) from the Bitmap Brothers, it looks
like a very good game, playable demo.


896 BRAT
Superb 3D scrolling platform puzzle game, could be totally addictive.


898 INTROS #54
Another excellent Intro's disk to thrill and astound, Anarchy have
come up with a piece of music that is truly mighty.


901 WARPED
An interesting and amusing slideshow from the sick and probably
perverted mind of James AD's, nice collection all the same, music is
quite good.


903 PEG ANIM
One of the best Sculpt 4D demos to arrive in our office for some
time, this anim shows a couple of objects being bounced around on top
of 2 clothes pegs and a spring, very good and could well go to
classic status.


906 BUST ANIM
An animation of the bust of Zeus, (hey! no rude comments please, if
you don't mind).  Excellently done in a metallic sort of way.  One
for all you anim collectors.


907 NASA SLIDESHOW
Pictures from NASA, featuring various objects including the shuttle
and of course the astronauts themselves, very well digitised.


909 PORKY PIG ANIM
An animation of an old Porky Pig cartoon.  Good ole Porky hits his
thumb with a hammer and almost bleats out an obscenity.


910 BASKETBALL ANIM
The great little classic demo has been put into the library, mainly
due to the volume of people wanting it to be entered, so it's here.


911 APPLECUS ANIM
Nice Sculpt anim featuring an abacus, but instead of beads there are
apples, very very good, a definite collectors item.


913 PHENOMENAL PHENOMENA
This is Steve's favourite demo at the moment, it goes to prove that
people with bad taste cometimes get it right (he he!).  This has to
be one of the best demos this year, so far.


914 SPACED OUT VOL #1
A volume of high quality, the music is really very good, and I would
defy anyone who said, in all honesty, the the track called `The
Mourning' isn't anything short of superb.


915 SPACED OUT VOL #2
10 more excellent tracks from the Magnetic Fields stable, if you have
the first one you simply must have this one to complete the set.


916 HAMLAB
Demo version of a very useful image converter utility.


918 MED V3.0
This is the best PD music utility available to date, this disk has
had loads of coverage in the mags, so, you've all read about it, and
now here's your chance to get hold of it.


921 RAMJAM MUSIC DISK
Another music disk that lives up to what it professes to do, and as
fas as house music goes it's ok!  I don't really like house so if you
into house you may think it's ultra cool.


923 DEVILS MUSIC DISK
Not the best music disk I have ever heard but having said that some
of the tracks are very good indeed.  There are over 20 tracks on this
disk.


927 PHENOMENA INTERSPACE
This demo has all the making of a brilliant demo, great graphics and
an even better soundtrack that could only be described with two
words, eerie and haunting.  Great stuff.


928 HAM IMAGINATION
A HAM slideshouw at its very best, this is the best HAM slides I have
seen for a very long time.  Totally awesome.


929 NO LIMITS COLLECTIN 1989-91
For you people who haven't heard of No Limits, then shame on you. 
These guys are talented and this compilation of their last 7 demo's
just goes to prove it.


930 TECHNOTRON
Light cycles futuristic style.  This is another version of Light
cycles, from the Walt Disney film Tron, the film that started a trend
of computer titles.


931 IPEC ELITE MUSIC DISK
In my lowly opinion this is the best music disk to grace to 17Bit
library as it is totally radical man.  Utterly superb and mightily
awesome, miss this disk and you certainly miss out on something in
life.


933 SPIRIT OF NONSENSE
This demo has two parts to it, the first one being a rotating cube
that does a lot of different shape changing, and the second part is
basically the same idea, but with different objects rotating.  The
musi is very good and is well worth the money.


936 BARD IN A BOX
10 tracks by a new group calling themselves Academy, as it is their
first music disk it isn't bad, in fact it is quite good, especially
the track called `White Pride'.


937 PUSSY MUSIC DISK
Yet another music disk graces the library with its presense.  This
one features 6 tracks of varying quality.


938 INTROS #55
5 More intros to tickle your fancy on here, there are demo's from
Cryptoburners, Anarchy and also Troon.


939 SOUNDTRIP MUSIC DISK
9 pieces of music on this excellently produced disk, they are all
very good in their own right.  A definite purchase for music freaks
everywhere.


940 EQUAMANIA II
Very nice music disk, nice presentation, but only one track on here
but my is it a long track.  Very well done with very clear samples.


943 STARLIGHT AND MATRIX VOL #3
This is a disk you will have to make your own mind up about.  As all
we are going to say is `no comment'.


944 FRACTALS DEMO
You've read the book, worn the T-Shirt, now watch the demo...


945 BIZZ NIZZ
Don't miss the party line from the Beatmaster, Bizz Nizz's huge
single has finally made it onto the market.


946 PROLOGUE MUSIC DISK
On this disk there are 5 tracks and all of them are of a high
standard, the presentation is left wanting, but the music makes up
for its other faults, if any.


947 UTILITY MIX II
Roll up!  Roll up!  Get your luverly utils here, loads and loads of
`em spread across 2 menus.


949 VK & DR
This disk brought to you by the Sandman is all to do with Virus
Killers and Disk Repairing, 18 different utilities is all.


950 UTILITIES DISK
Another disk that the Sandman has compiled, features 20 different
utilities, there are quite a few very useful ones on here, well worth
a look.


951 GATE MUSIC DISK
Bruno's mucis box II features a novel loader menu.  This is a cube
that you rotate with the joystick then you press the fire button to
hear that particular track.  There are 6 tracks in all and quite
frankly they are all excellent.


952 SOUNDREVOLUTION #6
After quite a long time, Celtics are back with this new music disk,
this disk has 6 toons, their presentation of the disk is of a high
standard as is the music, well worth waiting for.


953 VOGUE
And yet another music disk, this time by Vogue, 8 tracks in all, the
presentation is faultless.


954 CLIPART
These are the Clipart disks you've been waiting for, we have finally
got our hands on over 4 Megs worth of Clipart and hear it is, spread
over 6 disks, now all your dreams have come true.


955 CLIPART
As above.


956 CLIPART
As above.


957 CLIPART
As above.


958 CLIPART
As above.


959 CLIPART
As above.


961 SPECTRAPAINT V3.0
This is a really good PD paint program, it features a lot of utils
that you would need to draw decent pitures with.


962 DIRTY DIGIT
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


964 MOONSHINE RACERS
Here's a product about a game where you have to do an illegal act by
getting moonshine to its destination.  The intro is brilliant, the
music is great but the game looks to be a real dog.


965 SOUNDTRACKER MODULE DEMO DISK 1
These 2 disks are required for you to use this demo properly.  It is
basically a collection of some of the best soundtracker modules
around. There are twenty tracks in all.


966 SOUNDTRACKER MODULE DEMO DISK 2
Disk 2 of the above demo.


968 HAM PICS #1
A slideshow of a high quality, the slides are shown in HAM mode and
are of very beautiful women, all of the pictures are tastefully done
and leave your mind free to imagine.


969 HAM PICS #2
Again this demo is like its' predecessor, excellently digitised HAM
pictures of very good looking women.


970 HAM PICS #3
Another disk in the series of HAM disks, though this time the subject
matter is a little bit more general than the first two.


971 GAMESDISK #1
Wow!  Three absolutely brilliant games.  Rebound, and arkanoid clone.
Invaders, a great little shoot-em-up and finally last but not least,
Gridrunner, based on the old arcade game Caterpiller, this disk is
strongly recommended.


972 SPACE SHUTTLE AND HOLOCAUST ANIM
Two animations done with Dpaint 3.  The first one depicts the shuttle
launching then letting a satellite loose and then re-entering and
landing. The second anim shows a busy planet with spacecraft flying
around and then a comet comes in to spoil the fun.


975 JUGGLER 2D
Remember the sculpt anims juggler and juggette, well this 2D anim
puts tham both together on the same screen, and juggette tries to
seduce the juggler with surprising results.


976 AT THE MOVIES
This two meg anim is probably one of the best anims out at this
moment in time, excellently drawn and excellently digitised, a must
for anyone with two meg or more.


979 7 TILES
This is a nice game from Alpha Flight, it is a Speedball close with
no violence!  The graphics are small but neat.  An enjoyable
experience.


982 EDUCATIONAL STUFF
A good disk this, with quite a few different programs ranging from
Evo, a program which plots the history of mans' evolution to cloud, a
progam that generates and displays fractal surfaces.


983 EDUCATIONAL
Learn simple German phrases with this disk, excellent for people who
want to learn some phrases in German with the intent on `just getting
by'.


985 MORE EDUCATIONAL STUFF
Another educational disk with 4 different programs.  The weather,
Gravsim, Gravity Well and Airfoil.


986 LEARN AND PLAY
Some very good educational programs for your children, presented very
well indeed.


987 CREEPSHOW #1
If you are into horror then this is the disk for you.  Loads and
loads of pictures on here and a suitably atmospheric piece of music.


989 EDUCATIONAL DISK
Yet another disk with more educational stuff on, written using Amiga
basic.


990 PIANO ANIMAITON
A superb anim, this features, believe it or not, a piano where the
camera pans around it, very well produced, very smooth.


993 COOL FRIDGE DEMO
Another great megademo, this time by a new group calling themselves
Upfront.  There are 7 different parts altogether.


995 CHEAT DISK #1
Cheats for lots of popular games.


996 SCR MUSIC DISK II
A compilation of 8 music tracks from SCR, presented via an easy to
use menu selector.


997 FANTASY FORCE MUSIC 2
Another excellent music collection, this time from Fantasy Force. 
Contains 6 astounding tracks of good quality music.


998 ASTEROID FIELD ANIM
An excellent animation of an X-Wing fighter flying and dodging its
way through asteroids.


999 TRACKBALL ANIM
A very good animation that was produced using Sculpt 3D, truly
awesome.


1000 EDUCATION 2
An ultra useful disk full of educational programs.


1001 EDUCATION 5
More educational programs.  This type of disk is very good for
children.


1004 INTROS #56
TUG brings you even more hot products from around the world compiled
onto one fantastic disk.


1005 AMIGA TOOLS DISKS
Over 25 utils on this disk.


1006 A TRIP TO MARS
Excellent demo.


1009 VIOLATOR
Absence are back on the scene again with this new disk, some very
good filled vectors and also a great soundtrack.


1010 I LOVE TECHNOLOGY
The Beatmaster strikes again with another excellent music disk, this
one is his 13th.


1011 PLASMATRONIC
Another disk featuring music by the Beatmaster, which is a backing to
a copper-plasma routine.  Brilliant stuff not to be missed.


1012 MUSIC INSTRUMENTS #1
Loads of instruments for you to use in your music editor.


1013 MUSIC INSTRUMENTS #2
Disk 2 in the series, you can still load then into a music editor.


1015 GARY TOWER ART
More excellent artwork from Mr Tower, mostly produced using Sculpt 3D
and a couple with Dpaint.


1016 SUNWIND
An absolutely superbly presented demo featuring some great music, a
disk that you must simply have.


1017 SEALANCE
Good game in which you have to defeat aliens, by using an American
nuclear powered submarine is your only chance to get near the aliens
to destroy them, and make sure that they never invade Earth again.


1018 KEFRENS THE WALL
Nice intro brings you to the main part which is occupied by filled
vector routines.


1019 BANGING RAVES 2
This is the sequel to disk 867, this is another disk full of sampled
music.


1020A GOLDFIRE (DISK 1)
Another very good disk featuring loads of music, excellently
presented.


1020B GOLDFIRE (DISK 2)
Another very good disk featuring loads of music, excellently
presented.


1022 AMY -v- WALKER
A brilliant animation where Amy the Squirrel is chasing the Walker
with a spanner.


1023 FRANKLIN AT THE MOVIES
Very good animation using Fantavision that is both very will
presented and also humourous.


1024 TEXT CRAFT
2 excellent programs on here, Textplus and also Uedit.  If you have
not got a word processor you would be wise to get this disk.


1025 CHRIS HILL GRAPHICS
Excellent art disk, some really good stuff on here from one up and
coming artist.  You will be impressed with this disk.


1026 GLOBAL TRASH
Silents have brought out another high quality disk, when you see the
vector routines you will know what I mean.


1027A THE WALL (DISK A)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1027B THE WALL (DISK B)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1027C THE WALL (DISK C)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1027D THE WALL (DISK D)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1027E THE WALL (DISK E)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1027F THE WALL (DISK F)
The first 6 disk demo, totally amazing and well worth the dosh.  This
demo is nothing to do with Pink Floyd.


1029 CYRON MUSIC
"By your Command." Well, nearly.


1030 HARDLINE SOUND
Music demo of some sorts.


1031 RAP AROUND THE CLOCK
A disk of strange calibre, this is a type of house track with strange
graphics.


1032 JUGGETTE 2
The revenge is a very good animation following on from the first
Juggette demo.


1033 BRAINSTORM MUSIC
What can be said about this disk apart for just get it and get down.


1034 ALCATRAZ
A superb 20 minute long sound track, very well presented and should
be at the top of your list.


1036 PRINTER DRIVERS
If you've ever needed a printer driver, then look no further.


1037 SUPERKILLERS
Here's a disk that will detect and destroy 123 different viruses.


1038 SCRAPER MUSIC II
8 different tracks.  The best one being a track called `Saxolyn'.


1039 AURORA MEGADEMO
Another excellent megademo, the main features of this disk are HAM
bobs.


1040 PROLOGIC MUSIC
Prologic bring you a very nice music disk, this one features 9 tracks
of undoubted quality.


1042 RIPPED GEMS
This disk features 10 tracks of varying quality, the music has been
taken from games.  Very good presentation and well worth having.


1043 GALLOWS MEGADEMO
New group Gallows bring their first megademo to our screens.  Nothing
new but good nevertheless.


1044 LIGHT DEMO
Wow!  Surprise surprise, more vectors?  Yes.  Are they good?  Yes. 
Is this disk worth getting? Definitely.


1045A BASSMATIC (DISK A)
Another stunning demo, bought to you by the Crusaders, the music is
composed by Dr Awesome and Fleshbrain.


1045B BASSMATIC (DISK B)
Another stunning demo, bought to you by the Crusaders, the music is
composed by Dr Awesome and Fleshbrain.


1046 SHAPES (1MEG)
Superb puzzle game, can you fill up the black areas of the screen
with the correct objects in the time alloted.One of the best PD games
to come out for quite a while, this will keep you hooked for a long
time.


1047 DARKNESS MEGADEMO
7 parts to this excellent megademo, the presentation is outstanding
and the music is breathtaking.


1048 EMPIRE
A good little stratagy game.This game is a little bit like the game
Infogrammes brought out ages ago called Sim City.


1049 DYNAMITE FONTS 2
A collectin of nice fonts for you to use, just load them into Dpaint
and cut them out to use.


1050 VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS
Faithful reproduction of the Four Seasons by Vivaldi, brought to you
by Rob Baxter.  Excellent.


1051 VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS
Disk two of the above demo.


1052A TRUCKIN (DISKS A)
Excellent 2 player game based on trucks.  Very much in the same vein
as Ports of Call.


1052B TRUCKIN (DISKS B)
Excellent 2 player game based on trucks.  Very much in the same vein
as Ports of Call.


1054 BIORHYTHMS
A demo version of David Frenchs' Biorhythms, the graph date function
has been disabled.


1055 SOUNDTRACKER RIPPERS
A collection of the best Soundtracker rippers available at the
moment. There are 27 different rippers on here.


1056 BATTLE PONG
Remember the first arcade game Pong, well here's an upgraded version
of the old bat 'n' ball game, this one has different weapons and
special features, a definite steal at 89p.


1057 INTROS #57
There are only 2 intros on this disk, but they are 2 of the best
demos that I have seen for a very long time.


1059 INTROS #58
5 more intros to tickle your fancy, all of them are of a high calibre
and should not be missed.


1060 INTROS #59
Another intros disk with 5 intros, 4 of the things on here are intros
while the 5th one is a cutesy game.


1061 USEFUL UTILS
Lots of useful utilities


1062 BITS 'N' BATS
4 different programs make up this disk.  2 puzzles as well as a
shoot-em-up which was created by using SEUCS.  There is also a very
good stopwatch.


1063 BITS 'N' BATS 2
Yet another diks full of things to use and play with, there is an
excellent version of Concentration on this disk, good stuff.


1064 BITS 'N' BATS 3
More simple but intriguing games and utilities to get your teeth
into. Excellent version of Yatchzee as well as a Chinese solitaire
game.


1065 BITS 'N' BATS 4
Another 2 great little games on here, including Tron'90 plus the
superb program Textplus.


1068 WORD FRENZY
Quite a few different work utilities on here ranging from, spell
checkers to databases.


1069 ATAC ATIC
Oh Dear!  Spectrum games being converted to the Amiga, what is the
world coming to?  It's not as bad as you would have thought, it's
quite playable and after a while the action is quite gripping!  Well
worth a look.


1071 CROSSWORD CREATOR
If you have ever wanted to create a crossword puzzle but never had
the time or the patience, well here's your excuse to start compiling
them.


1073 GOLF RECORDER
If you are into golf in the sense of playing the sport, then consider
this disk, as it will keep accurate records of your courses as well
as your current handicap.  Excellently produced using AMOS.


1075 CANNON CAMERA ANIM
A nice animation.


1076 MIDNIGHT RUN ANIM
Another nice anim.


1078 HARLEQUIN
A tremendous demonstration of the graphic capabilities of your Amiga,
this demo shoves those graphics around faster than Steve can shovel a
bun down his throat.


1079 ANIMS (1 MEG)
Two nice Sculpt anis, one of them is an anim of a hand, while the
other one is of a hammer hitting a nail.


1080 UTILITIES
Best utility on here is a great little copy program which lets you
play pacman while your disk is being copied.


1081 INTROS #61
This disk introduces 4 more intros for you be drool over, these have
been some of the best demo's to date with stunning graphics and
excellent music.


1084 DOC DEMO #2
This is the follow up to DOC's first demo, another very good example
of how to manipulate vectors.


1086 VERTICAL MUSIC DISK
20 very good tracks in all, the best one on here for me is the
shortest track called `Old Best Wild West' which is the work of a
purist.


1089A BLUES HOUSE (DISK A)
This new disk by te Silents is yet another music disk of impeccable
quality, there are 14 different tracks to listen to while ou play the
Silents version of Thrust.


1089B BLUES HOUSE (DISK B)
This new disk by te Silents is yet another music disk of impeccable
quality, there are 14 different tracks to listen to while ou play the
Silents version of Thrust.


1090 DOMINATORS MEGADEMO
This is the Dominators first effort, and with a bit of luck their
next few releases will be as good as this one.


1091 MR POTATO HEAD
Another animation, this time in the style of that crap program `The
good old days', Mr Potato Head dances on the stage.


1092 MARS FLIGHT
An animation of excellent quality, this shows a spaceship flying
through radar traps and landing in the city.


1093 BOINGS
`The Boings' animated sequence was created using Sculpt 3D (Once
afaing). Nice and simple, effective and cleverly done.


1094 COYOTE 2 ANIM
The Second Coyote anim by Eric Schwartz, The road test is a tribute
to Chuck Jones, is a cartoon anim of Road Runner and Wile E. Coyote. 
Fans will love this.


1095 ANIMS
This disk features three anims; a dancing bird, animated with various
movements.  The boing machine.  Radio II, this is quite a nice simple
revolving anim, excellent use of shadowing and reflection.


1096 WINDMILL/CONGAMAN
Two animations here; Windmill is fast and smooth, again simple but
effective. Congaman, quite funny really although that probably wasn't
intentional.


1103 SLIPSTREAM MUSIC WITH A MESSAGE
This disk has a very good boot utility called Scorpion as well as a
demo saying do not buy from 3rd Base PD (nothing to do with us
folks!).


1106 TONIC
Better presentation than 1105, and the music is unbelievably just as
good, well worth a purchase.


1107 PULLING THE TRIGGER
This demo is mostly about circle scrollers, they must have some sort
of fettish about them, other parts include plasma and also a neat
solid vector scroll.


1109 DYNAMIC HI-RES
3 pictures of an outstanding quality, all 3 have been digitised using
Digiview 4.0 and are 4096 colours in Hi-Res.


1111 C-LIGHT
This is version 1.06 of the popular ray tracing program, if you are
into raytraced art you really must have this disk.


1112 UTILITIES
There are 9 utilities on this disk ranging from ImageEd to
Colourkwik. Some of the utils on this disk come in very handy every
now and again.


1113 GAMES GALORE #6
This disk has quite a few decent littly games including five in a
row, superbreakout amongst others, very enjoyable and well worth 89p.


1118 SANITY WORLD OF TECHNO
7 tracks of enviable quality, excellent presentation, if you are into
techno beats then you will not be disappointed.


1120 GALAXY LOVE
Another very good demo from the land of demo's, very well presented
with some great atmospheric music.


1121A RAF MEGAMIX #2 (DISK A)
This disk has been subtitled `The Pumpin' Track', this disk like
their first is very enjoyable and well through out, the whole demo is
just a joy to watch.


1121B RAF MEGAMIX #2 (DISK B)
This disk has been subtitled `The Pumpin' Track', this disk like
their first is very enjoyable and well through out, the whole demo is
just a joy to watch.


1122 MISS MA'M'SELLE
Another brilliant animatin by Eric Schwantz, if you liked his earlier
creations you will love this anim.


1123 TRISTAR INTROS
6 very good intros brought to you by Tristar and Red Sector, not much
else to say apart from more of the same sort of thing you would
expect to find on an intro disk.


1124 MINISLIDESHOW
This disk is brought to you by imagina is a minislideshow showing
enlarged heads (very strange!) in 4096 colours, very good quality.


1125 VEGA MUSIC DISK
There are 8 different tracks on this disk, 2 of them are by Sirjoe
the other 6 are by Filippetto.


1126 RELAY MUSIC
9 pieces of music on this disk mostly created by Bernard Summer, who
is now my hero, due to him recreating the cricket theme, not entirely
faithful, but who care its close enough.


1127 FANTASY FORCE MUSIC #2
This disk is very much like their first music disk, same naff
presentation but again the music makes up for that, excellent stuff.


1128 SEMTEX MUSIC DISK
This is a very good music disk, featuring the theme tune from `Twin
Peaks' as well as an excellent track entitled `Max Roach' which is
set in the early 1930's.


1129 STATIC BYTES INTROS
8 intros of varying quality, all of the intros are of a high enough
standard, that means there's no crap.


1130 SANITY FLASH FOR FANTASY
Some really good filled vector routines on this disk, just shows you
what can be achieved with your Amiga instead of all these ST ports.


1133 SLIDESHOW CONSTRUCTION SET
This program is designed to create `Script' files and at the same
time be east to use, very good.


1134 GRANNY ANIMS
Remember the old Miller Lite advert, well this disk has the old lady
who appeared in that ad appearing here in some unusual poses,
different.


1135 RSI FONTS
This disk is for use with the RSI Demo Maker.


1136 STORM MUSIC
8 more tracks that you can lay back and listen to, each track has its
own demo.


1138 SHORT 3D ANIMS
Two very nice animations called `Bounder' and `Lorry Juggler', not
very bug but a disk definitly for the collector.


1139 A64 PACKAGE V1.01n
This is a complete Commodore 64 emulator, there is full documentation
included on the disk.


1140 ZEUS MEGADEMO
This disk is an excellent offering from Zeus, intellectual pun there
folks, this is one of the better megademos around at the moment.


1141 IPEC ELITE MUSIC
6 tracks from the master of music Ipec Elite, after their last disk I
was almost drooling when I listened to these awesome tracks.


1143 20 SECONDS TO COMPLY
Two good tracks to listen to on hear, to hear the first one on here
you will need 1meg with the chipmem option.


1144 COPTER ANIMATION
A very good animation of a helicopter taking off and landing.


1145 PACMAN
This dated type of game still has its fans, and with me being a fan I
quite enjoyed this.  I wont say anymore about this as you probably
know what it's all about.


1151 GOLDFIRE OBLIQUE INFINITY
Goldfire are back with a new demo, this has several parts to it from
a very good parralax scroll to a housey dance track, all of it has
been produced well.


1152 PERSONAL JOURNAL
This program is designed with a password system built in so that you
and only you know the password, and you would be the only person to
read the files on the disk, basically it is like a secret diary.


1153 PERSONAL ADDRESS BOOK
This program brought to you by the same person who wrote Personal
Journal, it is just as the title suggests an address book, this was
also written in AMOS.


1154 NAPOLEONIC WARFARE SIMULATOR
This is a stratadgy game in which there are no graphics just text, it
is a very in depth game and is great fun seeing the enemy crumble at
your feet.


1155 MASTER OF THE TOWN
This game reminds one of Hogan's Alley in the arcades, but instead of
shooting people with your gun you are throwing stones to do as much
damage to property as possible, before the police arrive on the
scene, if you destroy everything possible you will be rewarded by
moving onto a more challenging screen, excellent game.


1156 ST-99 INSTRUMENTS
35 more instruments and sound FX for use in your musical compositions
in programs like Soundtracker etc.


1157 ST-98 INSTRUMENTS
34 more instruments, most of these are samples of people singing
something.


1158 ST-97 INSTRUMENTS
43 more samples to delight and amuse.  These range from Arnie to
Tweety Pie.


1159 DARK STAFF
This was an adventure game in the days when the Spectrum ruled.  Dark
Staff in considered as Shareware although the Spectrum emulator
supplied on this disk is PD.


1160 SUPERTEX
A very good terminal emulator, if you own a modem then you really
need this program.


1161 WHOM 1 STAR TREK INFO
Something for all you trekkies.


1165 MATHS DRILL
Excellent educational disk.


1166 STOCK MARKET GAME
Extremely good stock market game, very well researched and very 
competent. This is one game for all the thinkers.


1167 REDNEX INTRO COMPILATION
Rednex have compiled a disk of some excellent intros from some of the
more famous groups.  The prologic demo has some really nice graphics.


1168 SINKING DEMAND DEMO
This demo begins with a glorious mandlebrot 3D cycle animation.  If
you want to see some smashing solid 3D animation and anti-aliased
stills plus fractal landscapes.   You have found the demo you are
looking for.


1173 COLOUR CYCLE PICTURES (1Meg)
Some really amazing use of colour cycling to give the demo that
excellent feel of animated pictures.


1174 SCUM HATERS
Created using SEUCS, another Brazzle Atkins production.  This is a
nice little game involving violence and destruction as you can clean
up the streets of East London from maniacs and street fighters.  The
opening screen features digitised graphics of gruesome killing events.


1176 THE INVISIBLE WORLD
A black and white digitised slideshow including an ant (magnified
x200), a bedbug (magnified x300), a dust-mite (magnified x250), a
mite family, this is definitely a different type of slideshow.  You
will end up itching, it's like the creatures from John Carpenters
"The Thing".  The second part of the demo "Frozen in Time" and the
third part "Small World" feature yet more pictures such as a
magnified pin-head, needle and thread etc.  A very interesting
slideshow disk.


1178 VIRTUAL WORLDS
Follow up to a trip to mars, this stunning demo follows on directly
from the latter, with a twenty minute vector extravaganza.


1179 THE LAMER GAME
This is similar to the "Hit the Gopher" games found at arcades and
amusements, whereby you have to hit the Gopher on the head with the
hammer as they keep popping up faster and faster.  The Lamer Game in
a simulator of that, but this time the hammer is the mouse, so to
speak.


1180 INTROS #60
Enjoy the codesters efforts with this 8 demo compilation.


1183 WEBLEY ECLIPSE UTILS
Webley Eclipse is the start of a new series of utilities.  Loads of
Utilities for you to use, the disk includes full documentation about
all programs that run through icons on workbench.


1184 SAMPLE DISK (ST-87)
This disk contains IFF samples with "Sequencer Sound Effects".  On
here there is a varied collection of percussion, sample instruments.


1185 SAMPLE DISK (ST-88)
Included on this disk are a good collection of drums and instruments.


1186 SAMPLE DISK (ST-89)
A collection of raw samples, nicely varied instuments.


1187 SAMPLE DISK (ST-90)
Yet another sample disk with raw samples as well as IFF samples, very
good quality.


1188 INSPIRATION IS NONE
Anarchy have brought out this new demo, on here you will find some
excellent 3D vectors as well as some novel Mandlebrot and Julia sets.


1190 PINBALL ANIMATION
This is an excellent animation of two balls bobbing up and down in
water, superb.


1191 TEA CUPS ANIM
Another very good animation, the thing is where does the cups come
into it, all I saw was a teapot rotating above four balls with a
single silver ball running around the outside.


1192 REAL 3D SLIDES
Following on from the last two demos, this slideshow features
approximately seven pictures of unbelievable quality.


1194 VISTA DEMO
A product demo showing what Vista can do, an informative demo that is
in a slideshow format.  Fractal landscapes that are very good.


1197 VECTOR DESIGNER
This is excellent from the Special Brothers comes a great utility for
you to create your own vector graphics, very easy to use if you read
the manual.


1198 REAL 3D II
More very good pictures produced with Real 3D.  Some of the effects
that are produced are really stunning.


1199 LYNX DEMO
An Atari Lynx as you have never seen before with four pieces of very
good music including a classic track from the C64 a la Wizardry, very
good.


1201 PIANO TUNES
9 great tracks faithfully reproduced by Andy Chilton, tracks featured
include Black and White Rag, All creatures Great and Small as well as
Bagatelle in A minor, brilliant.


1202 FRACTALGEN SLIDES
Another very good disk full of fractal generated scenery.  The
backgrounds are from Photon Paint II and give the pictures an even
better feel.


1206 PMC ALPHA OMEGA
A demo that is both unusually and aurally stunning.  One of 
the better demos in the 17 Bit collection.


1207 TAS EGOTRIP DEMO
A rather neat Megademo by TAS, unfortunately doesn't work on all
systems.


1208 ANTI-LEMMIN DEMO
This is probably the only reason you should have two meg for your
Amiga. The animation is the best I have seen, all I can say is that
Eric Schwartz is a genius.


1209 ANIT-LEMMIN DEMO
Disk two of above.


1210 DUNGEONSAVE II
An excellent utility for those of you who don't know what or how to do
anything in Dungeonmaster, invaluable.


1214 SAMPLES
Another fine set of samples on this disk.


1221 CONVERTERS PACK
This disk is a bit of a godsend due to a lot of people asking to be
able to convert from one file format to another, excellent.


1222 ART OF MED
There is an excellent MED V3.0 play routine which enable you to play
your own songs without the need for the program.  There are also ten
songs on here for you to hear.


1223 MUSIC FROM URANUS
Very good music disk, there are a total of 9 tracks altogether.  There
is a very good remix of The Twilight Zone.


1226 COLOUR IT
This disk is very much like a program in the Licencesware called
Colouring Book, basically it is just like painting by numbers without
the numbers, very good.


1227 PARTY MUSIC WINNERS
4 brilliant pieces of music to brighten your day, all of them are
excellent bar one which is totally stunning, that being track number
one.


1228 DECAYING PARADISE
Andromeda megademo, stunning new routines put them firmly in the top
ten megademo coders.  Not to be missed by fans of this type of disk.


1229 ENDLESS PIRACY
This is a very good disk, it features quite a few songs, vector
graphics are of a high quality as well as being smooth in transit.


1230 ENDLESS PIRACY
Disk two of above.


1231 DRUMS AND PIPES
Not surprisingly this disk contains music which features drums and
pipes as instruments.  There are eight tracks altogether they are all
of a high quality.


1232 LITTLE JOE MUSIC
Good music disk, this was produced by Little Joe and Newtron.  The
graphics are top notch with some novel ideas on the music side of
things.


1233 DARK DEMOS
A very good slideshow, with cartoon graphics in black and white, it
also has a very good music accompanyment.


1234 SLIDESHOW
X-Trade are a new group and this is their first slideshow, all of the
graphics are hand drawn.  Some of them are OK, while others are
brilliant to the extreme.


1235 GRAPHICS COMPETITION
Ten superb pictures that were entered into the competition, these are
the top ten, the top three are really special.


1237 ASSASSINS UTILS
A utility disk from the Assassin guys.


1238 TAROT DISK 1
Want to know if you're going to die tomorrow? Check out with this
Tarot disk.


1239 TAROT DISK 2
Want to know if you're going to die tomorrow? Check out with this
Tarot disk.


1240 ASTEROIDS GAME
And now for something completely original. Shoot asteroids and they
break up into little asteroids. What a novel idea.       Next....


1241 END OF CENTURY 1999
A new demo from EOC.


1243 GAMES GALORE VOLUME 8
More wonderful games.


1246 RODENT ANIM (DISK A)
Eeeeeekkk Eeeeeekkk!


1247 RODENT ANIM (DISK B)
Eeeeeekkk Eeeeeekkk!


1248 SEAHORSE GAMES CHEATS
More cheats for commercial games.


1249 LLAMATRON
This is a classic. Wonderful shareware (Send Jeff 5 if you like it)
game based on his C64 classic. Written by Jeff "Mutant Hippy" Minter.
Amazing colours, sounds and exploding sheep. What more could you want?


1251 TOOLS OF THE TRADE
This is a really good utility disk, with four useful programs.
Tapecover, Loadcalc, Amiback demo and bBase II which is a very good
database creator.


1252 RSI UTILITIES #2
Another excellent utility disk for use with the RSI Demo Creator.
There are a total of eight different utilities on here together with
documentation.


1253 DATING GAME
Is there life after the Anit-Lemming Demo, the answer is most
definately YES. This is another superb effort by Eric Schwartz,
although you will need 3Meg to enjoy it.


1254 DATING GAME
This is disk 2 of the anim by Eric Schwartz.


1255 PICTUREHELP V1.0
With this program you would be able to convert your pictures to any
resolution you like, it also supports EHB and HAM pictures.


1256 HOLIDAY ANIM
Very nice ray-traced animation featuring two prople lazing by a
swimming pool bouncing a ball at each other.


1258 SUPER WOMAN ANIMATION
Another demo is in the same style as the holiday animation except that
this time a ray traced woman does a little bit of weight lifting.


1264 MED DISK #1
There are 6 tracks of considerable note on this disk.


1265 MED MODULES #2
Another 6 very good tracks for you to mess around with.  MED V2.01 is
also supplied on this disk.


1267 MINT CONDITION
A two disk demo written with AMOS, the graphics and language are quite
strong so please be warned, although most of the sketches are very
funny.


1268 MINT CONDITION
Disk two of above demo.


1273 TOMCAT GAME
A game that was written using SEUCK (Shoot-Em Up Construction Kit).
Nice graphics with adequate sound. What more could you ask for.


1274 SLICK UTILITIES
10 very good utilities from PowerPacker to an excellent text editor, a
disk that shouldn't really miss.


1275 OPTICOMMS #1
This disk is the second disk that the Optimist has in our library.
This time he has come up with the ultimate in comms disks.


1276 MUSIC CONSTRUCTION KIT
Anything you would need to create a classic track is on this disk.
Very good and highly recommended.


1277 HACL GAMES SOLUTIONS
Dissolve one commercial game in a test tube... er. No. Games solutions
for popular games.


1279 DIP DAP BROTHERS
Another utility disk with games and full documentation is also on
here. Quite a few useful ones on here to get your teeth into.


1280 FORGET ME NOT
Yet another utility disk of extraordinary prowess, this disk has two
programs that stand out for the others, as they test your Amiga for
faults.


1281 MEGABALL
Probably one of the best PD games available, this is based on the
Arkanoid theme, the graphics, sound and playability just cannot be
faulted.


1282 JUMPY
This has to be one of the more infuriating of games on the PD scene.
You control a little guy who collects bones.  Very good.


1284 CHINESE CHECKERS
The age ole 6 player game of Chinese Checkers has finally arrived on
the Amiga, this excellent game plays mean and fast, you will need all
your brain cells to win this one.


1285 GAME ATTACK
Five very good games on here, ranging from asteroids to boulderdash.
Very good fun with hours upon hours of enjoyment.


1289 POGO
Yet another animatin by Eric Schwartz, this time featuring Miss
Ma'mselle, another example of his extraordinary talent.


1290 PURE FUN
There are four games on here which includes a connect 4 type game as
well as a brilliant version of Klondyke.


1291 MUSIC FROM URANUS #2
Remember the first one?  No, oh well this one is miles better than the
first and that one was pretty good.  Approx. 6 tracks.


1294 REFLECTIONS
A music disk with a difference seven songs of scintillating sound to
blast your ears.


1295 BRIT STICK UTILITIES
A very good utility disk of some note.  28 utilities for you to play
around with, there are quite a few useful ones as well.


1296 NOISELESS
There is only 1 piece of music on here, called `Face Another Day' by
Jogeir Liljedahl, this is brilliant, well worth getting.


1297 HORN CONCERTO'S
This is a two disk classical extravaganza, featuring Mozart.  Four
Horn Concerto's, namely K447, K412, K495 and K417 are on this disk.
Very well produced.


1298 HORN CONCERTO'S
Disk two of the above demo.


1300 INSTRUMENTS (ST-06)
There are over 90 instruments on this disk for you to play with.


1303 ANIMATORS MEGADEMO
The Animators are back with this megademo featuring the usual stuff,
vectors, great music and super graphics.


1304 HYPNOSIS MUSIC
This is brilliant.  8 tracks of pur extasy that should not be missed
for anything.


1305 CORSAIR -v- ZERO
A few animations of a good quality showing two planes dogfighting,
very good indeed.


1306 DYNAMIC HI-RES
5 excellent examples of hi-res in 4096 colours.


1308 RADISH SAMPLES DISK
Samples of Radish. I think.


1311 RADIO ACTIVE
Interesting disk, probably.


1312 THE CHIPS ARE UP
This animation features Mr Potato Head diving off a high platform into
a pool of water, very well produced, by Chris Hill.


1313 WHOM
More stuff for Star Trek fans.


1314 TRIDONIX-RELAY
A music disk with a catchy loading tune with roughly 
15 tracks. (Ha Ha!)


1315 BUBBLEMEN DISK 38
3 animations, the first one is of a mans face appearing through a
wooden wall, very good, the other ones look like they were put on the
disk just to fill up the space.


1316 RAY TRACED ART
Excellent ray traced art featuring two very good pictures of a watch
and another one of a truck, there are approx. 6 pictures all told.


1318 VOGUE MUSIC DISK
Vogue is alive and well, which this demo just goes to prove, 5 tracks
of pure extasy.  Best track is one called `Laserbeats'.


1320 RIPPERS
Amazingly, when we need something it suddenly appears, on this disk
there are an astounding 45 different files, most of them are rippers
and the others are documents for the rippers.


1321 DEFJAM DEMO
Defjam bring you this new demo, there are quite a few new parts to it,
obviously vector graphics come on and make an appearance.


1322 MELTED EXPERIENCE
Yet again we see another megademo, this again is a very good effort,
some of the routines are really very well written this is one disk
that deserves to do well.


1323 EQUINOX INTRO'S COMPILATION
This time there are 7 demos to choose from, from famous groups such as
The Special Brothers and the like, some very nice goings on indeed.


1324 PRECISE MEGADEMO
More of the usual European coders stuff, all of the usual things
appear in this demo as with others of the same ilk.


1326 MUSIC DISK
Over 80 different pieces of music including some of the more famous of
musicians, Dr Awesome and Jesper Kyd to name but two.


1327 ZARCH MUSIC
Another excellent music disk, this time featuring music from brilliant
demos plus a very special Turrican 2 remix, tremendous stuff.


1328 TAITAN MUSIC
18 really good tracks, a lot of them are conversions from games music
on the C64, though they aren't just copies as they have been remixed.


1330 SONIX ARRANGER DEMO
Sonic Arranger could be the music editor to knock MED off its
pedestal. Well presented with some fine music and a nice intro.


1331 VOGUE UTILITIES
Yet again we see another good utility disk rearing its head, more very
useful utilities on here.


1332 VECTOR DANCE 2
One for vector purists, contains nothing but the best in 50
frames/second vectors.  From a foremost crew Cult.  Well worth a look.


1333 TECHNOMANIA '91
If you're into technopop then do not hesitate with this one.  Just buy
it and experience the experience.  There are 6 tracks in total.


1337 SHUTTLECOCK DEMO
Eric Schwartz brings you this delightful animation of two shuttles
playing Badminton.  Very well produced as usual.


1338 MESSYSID II
If you remember MessyDos then this could be classed as the sequel. 
Does everything that MessDos did and more, plus it's easier to use,
full documentation is included.


1340 VIRUS KILLERS
What can really be said about this that the title of the disk doesn't
say already.


1341 REBELS INTROS COMPILATION
Five superb intros from five well known groups, including Silents and
Dual Crew.  Definite purchase needed for this disk.


1342 CASTLE OF DOOM
This adventure game is meant for beginners with a good parser and
pretty graphics.  If you`re into adventures or just starting out you
could do a lot worse than take a look at this disk.


1343 ICONMANIA
Fed up with those crappy little icons you have?  Want to create
better, bigger ones?  Yes?  Then get this disk.


1344 NORTH C (1/2)
This is a complete C compiler and editor. It isn`t as good as
commercial products


1345 NORTH C (2/2)
This is a complete C compiler and editor. It isn`t as good as
commercial products


1347 HOME UTILITIES
This disk has Wordwrite V2.6, Labelprint and SCalc.


1350 POM POM GUNNER
Bang Bang Bang.. Shoot down the Japanese Airforce over Pearl Harbour.


1351 WIZZYS QUEST
A Quest, starring Wizzy. Probably a game.


1352 ANARCHY DIGITAL INNOVATION
Very impressive coding as vectors and bobs strut their stuff!


1353 MED 3.11B
Well this is a music program in a similar vein to NOISETRACKER.


1354 RETURN TO EARTH
This is a game in the same vein as ELITE, but obviously nowhere near
as good as the classic....But still worth having.


1355 OPTIMIZER & BITS
Some very useful utilities here...Including an OPTIMIZER, which for
some reason wil lnot work on a plus!


1356 WINDOWSBENCH
A pretty imitation of MICROSOFTS WINDOWS(tm), but that is all, it
doesn`t actually do anything else.  But it makes your system look ace!


1357 JS CD MUSIC VOLUME 1
7 music tracks to set your feet a tappin` and your legs a wigglin`


1358 LABELBASE
As the title suggests this is a database for creating labels!


1359 HOT UTILITIES
11 superb utils for you people out there.  These include
PRODIALER, and FIXICONS.


1361 PAISAGENS 1
AWWW! Some pretty landscapes. Disk 1


1362 PAISAGENS 2
AWWW! Some pretty landscapes. Disk 2


1363 NO LIMIT SLIDESHOW
A utility for creating slideshows. (Written using AMOS by the way!)


1364 VECTOR UP YOUR ASS
Superb music disk.  Ignore the title.  About 8 tracks in all


1365 GAMES(5)
5 games for the younger members of the family.


1366 RSI UTILITIES
A disk of utils for the RSI demo maker.


1367 CARD GAMES
I think the title gives everything away here.


1368 INTRO`S 62
Yawn! It`s 3 o`clock in the morn....Hey this disk is MEGA!!! I feel
great now.


1369 OPTI-UTILS 2
Wacky carrot(!) presents a disk full of utilities.


1370 SAMPLES DISK
A disk with some samples on it.


1373 LLAMATRON + METAGALACTIC LLAMAS
Hmmmm! I think Jeff Minter is one strange dude.  But these games are
totally awesome!


1374 IRIS ANIMATION
A strange anim, similar to LUXO TEENAGER.


1376 BRUNO`S MUSIC BOX 3 DISK A
An incredible disk by ..... wait for it ..... BRUNO!


1377 BRUNO`S MUSIC BOX 3 DISK B
An incredible disk by ..... wait for it ..... BRUNO!


1378 GAMES
Here we have TILES, TETRIS(!), BATTLESHIPS(HO HO), CHESS.


1383 WORKSTATION
Another type of workbench with tons of utilities.


1384 WORKSTATION DOCS
This is the docs disk for the above.


1385 QUICKBENCH
Okay 1.2 and 1.0 machine owners, pass by this. It's for 1.3 upwards,
and is a ram resident workbench.


1387 ALIEN BREED SLIDESHOW
A series of shots from Alien Breed by TEAM 17(A MEGA COMPANY!)


1389 DISK LABEL DESIGNER
Design and print your own disk labels.


1394 PROTRACKER 1.2
Another version of this excellent music program.


1396 DESKBENCH
They`re coming thick and fast these Workbench variants.  Yet another
variant here, making your workbench like a desk.  (So long as it isn`t
like mine.....all cluttered up with disks, and rubbish!)


1397 DESKBENCH
They`re coming thick and fast these Workbench variants.  Yet another
variant here, making your workbench like a desk.  (So long as it isn`t
like mine.....all cluttered up with disks, and rubbish!)


1398 DESKBENCH
They`re coming thick and fast these Workbench variants.  Yet another
variant here, making your workbench like a desk.  (So long as it isn`t
like mine.....all cluttered up with disks, and rubbish!)


1401 TEXT ENGINE
Woah! A very good word processor (Now includes a spell checker!)


1402 RHAPSODY IN BLUE
Converted to the Amiga for you...


1405 AMIGA FOX
Hey! A PD desktop publisher.  And it aint too bad either!


1406 GAMES
Various Games, do not work on Kickstart 2.04


1407 GAMES
Various Games, do not work on Kickstart 2.04


1408 GAMES
Various Games, do not work on Kickstart 2.04


1409 GAMES
Various Games, do not work on Kickstart 2.04


1410 CRYPTIC UTILITIES
48 amazing utilitites.


1412 CRYPTIC UTILITIES
62 Utilities on this one.


1413 HI-RES UTILITIES
20 Utilities. Including system test.


1414 VIRUS KILLERS
You don`t really need telling now.


1415 DIGITAL ADDRESS BOOK
A computerised address book for you to faff around with.


1416 BEST OF RAF MUSIC #1
That's Royal *Amiga* Force, not the *Air* force... So unfortunately no
Dambusters theme, Battle of Britain theme, etc...


1417 GRAPHICS CONSTRUCTION KIT
Another great utility rearing it`s head on the PD scene.


1418 INSANITY TOOLS 1
It strikes me there may be a competition on the go to see how many
utils can be stuffed on a disk!


1419 SUPER TWINTRIS
This has to be one of the best Tetris games on the market.  It even
blows away the commercial opposition.  You do not need this if you
have the AMIGA POWER Cover Disk with demo of LEANDER. <It`s on there>


1420 GAMES GALORE #9
Seven very enjoyable games, including PACMAN, and Kamikase chess.


1421 ALIEN BREED ANIMATION
Alien Breed Animation:1.5 Meg needed. Full animation from the game.
Very, very slick indeed.


1422 GAMES COMPILATION
Everything you need to start your own do-it-yourself tea-bag
perforating business.


1423 NO MANS LAND GAME
Another game.


1425 ANARCHY DEMO
Dolly mixture 8".All the best crews....


1426 TSCH
Strange name, strange game, bit strange to explain suffice to say it
is a shoot `em up.


1427 DUNGEONS OF NADROJ
A strangely addictive RPG type game.


1428 CHESS TUTOR
Teach yourself chess, and rate your progress.


1429A MAHONEY & KAKTUS A
2 disks jam full of music, some great some only good, but if you like
music you`ll love this.


1429B MAHONEY & KAKTUS B
2 disks jam full of music, some great some only good, but if you like
music you`ll love this.


1430 NANO DEMO
Another Amiga Demo. Some original ideas though.


1431 GRAPHICS AND INTROS
Some very good intros.


1433 LSD MEGADEMO
Another megademo from the Leeds Swapping Division.


1434 INTROS COMPILATION
Get the best intros on one disk.


1436 BATTLE OF BRITAIN
"Ein Spitfire. Got in Himmel!" TAAK-A-TAAK-A-TAAK.... etc.


1437 ETHOS
One heck of a Greek adventure.


1438 GAMES
A mild selection of games including I.Q test.


1439 QUARTZ MEGADEMO
Very funny, good music, cannot fault it.


1440 PROTON MUSIC
Ahhh! Some nice relaxing music.


1441 PUMA TRACKER
Find out what those large cats really get up to. No? Well it's a
Noisetracker type program.


1442 AGONY PREVIEW
Preview of the aptly-named Psygnosis game.


1443 PROPHECY MUSIC
Some nice dance tracks.


1444 ATLANTYS SLIDES
WOW! You MUST have this disk.  These are some serious graphics! Got a
Plus, go to your friends, as this disk is that good.


1445 LUKE AND JOE SLIDES
Hmmm! Good, but not as good as the one above.


1447 DEVILS NO REALITY
Not bad, quite an impressive disk.


1448 RAM JAM MUSIC
Ram Jammed full of music.


1449 SSI SLIDES
A slideshow of Dragon Strike.(SSI`s game).


1450A DIMENSION 4, AMPLIFIER 2
A varied collection of music tracks. 2 disks


1450B DIMENSION 4, AMPLIFIER 2
A varied collection of music tracks. 2 disks


1451 TECHNO TRANCE
12 minutes of music.  And great for it.


1452 LSD MUSIC
Lots more music


1453 SOUND SPLASH IV
Best of the series.


1454 MAJIK 12: RAY OF HOPE
If you have the patience you will see some great graphics.


1455A EQUINOX - SO WHAT (1/2)
I like it.


1455B EQUINOX - SO WHAT (2/2)
I like it.


1456 SONIC BOOM MUSIC
More Amiga-generated music for you.


1457 WFMH VECTORS
The World Federation Of Mad Hackers Strike again with this great
vector demo.


1458 KEFRENS GUARDIAN DRAGON
They just keep on writing, and get better and better, good music, good
graphics, good demo.


1460 DEVILS LABRYNTH
Something. Try it and see.


1461 MUTTLEY ON THE BOUNTY
Ho ho ho, hee hee hee, haa haa haa, Oh this is so funny	I liked
this, but I`ll never look at it again.


1462 UNICOPY
Who knows what mysterious contents this disk contains?


1463 ANIMATIONS
A flying bus! A flying car!! And Rock `N` Roll.


1464 INTROS COMP
More intros. Wow.


1467 LEMMING CURD
Music disk.


1468 PRINT UTILS
Utilities to make using a printer just that little bit easier.


1469 TEXT VIEWER
View text files with this disk.


1471 TECHNO FRIGHT
I'm scared.


1472 A-GENE
Trace your ancestory with this genealogy program. I feel so old now I
need a geology program to trace my ancestory.


1473 REBELS "THE THING"
and TSB demo.  Excellent!


1474 NEW DEMOS
Two nice demos from two great groups (Silents and Phenomena)


1475 OUTLAND DEMO
By Rebels.  Very Nice.


1476 EXILE FONTS
New fonts from Exile


1478 AMIBASE 3.76
New version of this excellent PD database program.


1479 VISICALC
A calculator for Visigoths. Probably.


1480 M-CAD
A CAD (Computer Aided Design) program.


1481 RIM DATABASE
A relational database system.


1482 RELAY MUSIC DISK
Some very, very good tunes.


1483 BAGPIPES MUSIC.
Incredible! Real bagpipes music on Amiga!


1484 MUSIC POWER
Rave to this disk!


1485 MUSIC COMPILATION
Includes the Rolf Harris Rap!


1486 DATABASES COMPILATION
Several databases for your Amiga/CDTV.


1487 BACH MUSIC
Didn't know he had an Amiga. Gosh. You learn something new every day.


1489 TECHNO MANIA 2
I'm mad.


1490 VANISH MUSIC DISK
[Predictable comment #1] 
Not sure what's on this disk, it's disappeared.


1491 DESKTOP MUSIC WORKSHOP.
For some nice music.


1492 ICON CLIPART
Icon clipart stuff.


1493 REBELS INTRO COMP
A compilation of intros put together by Rebels.


1494A AXLE (DISK A)
Music Compilation.


1494B AXLE (DISK B)
Music Compilation.


1495 CDA HYPNOSIS DEMO
A demo from Hypnosis.


1498 TEXT ENGINE V3.0
What a great text editor.


1499A NTWIC MUSIC 1
Lotsa music.


1499B NTWIC MUSIC 1
Lotsa music.


1501 WILDFIRE MEGADEMO
Megademo from Wildfire. Do you really need these descriptions?


1506 EASY PRINT
Printing too much of a strain? Try Easy Print.


1507 500 THINGS
By Nic Cusworth, a great music disk if you like great music disks.


1508 GORE SLIDESHOW
By Pic... I LIKE IT A LOT!!!!


1509 STORYLAND 2
A game for animal lovers.


1510 DRIP
By The Three Amigos.  Drown your opposition.


1511 GAMES SELECTION.
Who knows what's on this disk? I certainly didn't when I put the CD
together. Perhaps it's fun, give it a try.


1512 DOLLY MIX 9
More intros and demos.


1514a SKIZZO DEMO (1/2)
A new two disk demo


1514b SKIZZO DEMO (2/2)
A new two disk demo


1515 ALTERED PERCEPTIONS ARTWORK
By Chris Hill.


1518 RELAY MUSIC 2
Another Compilation


1520 ASPECTS MUSIC DISK
A disk of Aspects musics.


1522 PERM CHECK
Football pools program.


1525 DIGITAL NOISE
Get down, Get up, Get THIS!


1526 WORKMATE UTILS
Another utility disk.


1530 TEXT WRITER
Write text with this text writer.


1531 SHADOW MUSIC COLLECTION
I'm scared.


1533 VIETNAM CONCLICT 1 MEG
Its that man again!


1534 VTOL ANIMATION 2 MEG
Whats this man smoking?


1535 ATF AGILITY 1 MEG
He is still going strong!


1536 GULF CONFLICT 1.5 Meg
Shwartz is up and running with this comical look at SADDAM.


1541 600 BUSINESS LETTERS
"Dear xxxx, You're sacked." etc...


1543 PRINT STUDIO
Ideal for printer owners.


1544 JEOPARD
A board game in same mould as Risk, a little bit slow but still very
enjoyable. a strategist's dream.


1545 HARD DRIVE UTILS
Utilities for all hard drive owners.


1546 BUSINESS CARD MAKER
Make your own business cards.


1548 SKATE TRIBE
A game programed in Amos, but still looks well and plays well.  Guide
your man down the screen in this arcade frenzy.


1549 THE HIDDEN DEMO
[Predictable comment #2] I couldn't find it!


1550 WIZZCAT INTROS
An intro disk from Wizzcat


1551 WIZZCAT INTROS
An intro disk from Wizzcat


1552 WIZZCAT INTROS
An intro disk from Wizzcat


1553 HYPNOTIC HAMMER
Errrrrrr... Pass.


1554 SKIDROW MEGADEMO
Very good demo all the usual stuff, vectors, bobs, superb music, all
rapped up in a 68000 cake.


1556 HOME GROWN MED MUSIC
From D homfray, tunes on the disk are, Kade, 4-40, lowlife.


1557 JAMES DEVALIS MUSIC
Bouncing, waterfall, Xtasy, bouncing tracks of hyper music for you to
enjoy.


1559 21 GAMES ON CD
21 Games on one hot PD disk, every kind of game is featured and they
all work out at less than 0.1p each, Chinese Checkers, Backgammon,
Invaders, Missile Command, and many many more.


1560 CDA LIMELIGHT
6 tunes, Digita, Genesis, Isometric, Dictator, The Visitor, his music
is always good, check some of his earlier work.


1561 CDA NEMESIS
Another music disk this time with a difference, about six tracks that
load an animation first.  So sit back and enjoy these brilliant tunes
and watch the stunning graphics.  CDA's best effort yet.


1562A HARDWIRED A
Crionics + Silents team up for one the best ever 2 disk demo's, called
Hardwired and believe me you will be after seeing this stunning peice
of code.  Buy it now or drift into oblivion forever.....probably demo
of the year 1992 (1 meg)


1562B HARDWIRED B
Crionics + Silents team up for one the best ever 2 disk demo's, called
Hardwired and believe me you will be after seeing this stunning peice
of code.  Buy it now or drift into oblivion forever.....probably demo
of the year 1992 (1 meg)


1564 ROLLERPEDE
A new game. I think.


1565 RADBENCH 1.4
Latest version of RadBench (for 1.3 owners)


1566 GOLDFIRE DIVINE INSPIRATION 2
Another selection of great tracks all put together with a beautiful
front end, as always it's CD player style so you can skip edit and
program your fave's.


1567 SANITY TURMOIL
Once again another that won't work on the new Plus machine, another
Mega Demo containing all the things you have come to expect + a few
more 68000 co processor chip style font routines.  Definately one for
the demo fan.


1568 DUAL CREW BRAIN DRAIN
What can you say about Dual Crew that hasn't already been said? They 
just go from strength to strength. These guys can program so well
Psynosis should bite their bloody hands off. Excellent Demo filled
with brill music and enough vectors to re film '2019 A Space Vector'
(the movie)


1569 KIDS PAINT
They certainly do. Usually all over your walls. Prevent this with this
great kids paint program.


1570 WORKBENCH HACKS
Amuse your friends mildly by putting all these things in their
startup-sequence. Then run.


1571 BOOTX
Version of the BootX Virus killer.


1572 MED V3.2
The excellent music editor from Finland.


1574A ODYSSEY (1/5)
Alcatraz have come up with one of the most stunning demo's ever
spread over 5 disks it takes you on the trip of a lifetime, megs
and megs of music, megs and megs of graphics, and animations that
leave you speechless, the only bad point is it doesn't work on
a Plus machine so you lot can go and have a good cry!!!!!!!


1574B ODYSSEY (2/5)
Alcatraz have come up with one of the most stunning demo's ever
spread over 5 disks it takes you on the trip of a lifetime, megs
and megs of music, megs and megs of graphics, and animations that
leave you speechless, the only bad point is it doesn't work on
a Plus machine so you lot can go and have a good cry!!!!!!!


1574C ODYSSEY (3/5)
Alcatraz have come up with one of the most stunning demo's ever
spread over 5 disks it takes you on the trip of a lifetime, megs
and megs of music, megs and megs of graphics, and animations that
leave you speechless, the only bad point is it doesn't work on
a Plus machine so you lot can go and have a good cry!!!!!!!


1574D ODYSSEY (4/5)
Alcatraz have come up with one of the most stunning demo's ever
spread over 5 disks it takes you on the trip of a lifetime, megs
and megs of music, megs and megs of graphics, and animations that
leave you speechless, the only bad point is it doesn't work on
a Plus machine so you lot can go and have a good cry!!!!!!!


1574E ODYSSEY (5/5)
Alcatraz have come up with one of the most stunning demo's ever
spread over 5 disks it takes you on the trip of a lifetime, megs
and megs of music, megs and megs of graphics, and animations that
leave you speechless, the only bad point is it doesn't work on
a Plus machine so you lot can go and have a good cry!!!!!!!


1575 WIZZCAT INTROS
Intros from Wizzcat.


1585 200 UTILS
Two hundred utilities on one disk? Yes, apparently.


1586 DCOPY V2.0
Copy disks.


1589 EOC 1999 MIXOLYDIAN
Another brilliant Music disk from EOC 1999 Tune featured are, Never
ending story, Precious thing, Last night Technic dream, Satisfaction +
others.  Very well presented disk.


1590 EOC 1999 (7TH SENSE)
Back again with another top rated demo, plasma, vectors, animation
music beyond belief, another demo collector's dream come true. Surely
somebody out there needs some of these guys to program the latest hot
games, give em a job and get rid of those unbearable ST
ports.............


1592A AT THE MOVIES 2 (1 & 3 MEG ANIM)
At the movies 2 is stunning to say the least, the more memory you have
the better (no sound on 1 meg), Mr Schwartz just gets better and
better. 4 Disks is a lot but I'm sure you will agree it's well worth
it, is it me or is that female squirel attractive.  (I think it`s just
you Steve. Chris)


1592B AT THE MOVIES 2 (1 & 3 MEG ANIM)
At the movies 2 is stunning to say the least, the more memory you have
the better (no sound on 1 meg), Mr Schwartz just gets better and
better. 4 Disks is a lot but I'm sure you will agree it's well worth
it, is it me or is that female squirrel attractive. (I think it`s
just you, Steve. Chris)


1592C AT THE MOVIES 2 (1 & 3 MEG ANIM)
At the movies 2 is stunning to say the least, the more memory you have
the better (no sound on 1 meg), Mr Schwartz just gets better and
better. 4 Disks is a lot but I'm sure you will agree it's well worth
it, is it me or is that female squirel attractive.  (I think it`s just
you Steve. Chris)


1592D AT THE MOVIES 2 (1 & 3 MEG ANIM)
At the movies 2 is stunning to say the least, the more memory you have
the better (no sound on 1 meg), Mr Schwartz just gets better and
better. 4 Disks is a lot but I'm sure you will agree it's well worth
it, is it me or is that female squirel attractive.  (I think it`s just
you Steve. Chris)


1595 AIRMANIA
An original Game that really is very good try it.


1596 NUMPTY AND THE ALIEN INVADERS
A very good platform game, in the Manic Miner mould. Very good and
very addictive.


1597 ANIMATION
Well, that's a descriptive title, isn't it?


1598 COSMIC RACER
A fast moving game that puts you in charge of a jet bike. Power your
way through level after level of hot arcade action.


1599 PUNISHER DEMO
A demo.


1600 FLASHCOPY
Copies in a flash. Almost.


1601 TWINTRIS
Most excellent Tetris version.


1603 SYMBIOSIS DEMO
Another megademo.


1604 RAZOR 1911 DEMO
Great demo. Check it out.


1605 RAYTRACED DREAMS
A selection of mega pictures by Quad, Enjoy this brilliant slideshow,
pictures are Rabbit Skier, Eggy Pop, Ancient Kitchen The Hot Rod,
Trans Atlantic, The Duke Jet, and Hard Error.


1607 INTRUDER DEMO
Nice Soft, Gentle Music To Keep You Calm And Relaxed.


1609 GALAGA 92
Great Galaxians-type game.


1610 ALCATRAZ MUSICS
A music disk full of tantalising music from Alcatraz (See ODYSSEY
(1574) by Alcatraz also!)


1611A SUPERBOWL TICKEYS
Hmmmm, digitized American football tickets.  Not as crap as it sounds,
you find yourself wanting to see the next screen.


1611B SUPERBOWL TICKETS
Hmmmm, digitized American football tickets.  Not as crap as it sounds,
you find yourself wanting to see the next screen.


1612 PRINT TOOLS
As the name suggests this disk is full of useful utilities for use
with your printer.


1613 PROCALC
Hey this is really good, get this, someone sat down and programmed a
calculator!  Granted it`s a good calculator, but why?


1614 SAMPLE MAKER
You can`t afford a sampler?  Get this disk then, it allows you to make
samples without a sampler!


1618 VIRUS KILLERS
Kills just about all known viri dead!  Except colds!


1619A SCENERY ANIMATOR ANIM
2 disks, 1 meg, Picture this: imagine a land inside your Amiga, then
put a camera in, and have a look around, this demo is shockingly good!


1619B SCENERY ANIMATOR ANIM
2 disks, 1 meg, Picture this: imagine a land inside your Amiga, then
put a camera in, and have a look around, this demo is shockingly good!


1622 TRACKMO
Demos are getting better and better and this one is no exception.


1623 CYBERSOUNDS
The lads keep writing decent stuff and pumping it out at full speed,
but the quality doesnt falter!


1625 OUTLAND
Sorry, demo but what it is like I do not know!


1626 ADICT SILICON DREAMS
Oh yeah, more head stompin music an grafix!


1628A BRAINWAVE + ZENITH (A)
The guys have just released this spiffingly good music disk to
tantalise your earlobes.


1628B BRAINWAVE + ZENITH (B)
The guys have just released this spiffingly good music disk to
tantalise your earlobes.


1629 VEGA MUSIC
Not Suzanne, but some more endless tracker music to blast out of your
monitor!


1630 ACTION CONFERENCE
Some demos shoved together on a compilation.  Some good, and some
okay, but all worth having!


1631 ACTION MUSIC COMP.
Some music demos stuck together and sellotaped together and smacked
onto the disk with blue tack.


1632 PROTRACKER 1.1B
Hey music lovers, lets make our own, and there are some modules on
here too!


1633 GATOR GRAPHICS
A tutorial on producing some fairly decent grafix!


1634 THE COLOURS DEMO
Hmmmm! Rather nice, but it is pretty nice, pretty good, pretty all
round!


1635 CRYSTAL/SILENTS
The musical phenomena continues, with another musical extravaganza.


1636A LANDING
4 MEG 4 DISKS by RICHTER!  `NUFF SAID.  If you have the memory, then
you must get these disks.


1636B LANDING
4 MEG 4 DISKS by RICHTER!  `NUFF SAID.  If you have the memory, then
you must get these disks.


1636C LANDING
4 MEG 4 DISKS by RICHTER!  `NUFF SAID.  If you have the memory, then
you must get these disks.


1636D LANDING
4 MEG 4 DISKS by RICHTER!  `NUFF SAID.  If you have the memory, then
you must get these disks.


1637A BUZZED (A)
This is almost as good as the Landing demo but it only needs 3 MEG and
doesnt last as long consequently!


1637B BUZZED (B)
This is almost as good as the Landing demo but it only needs 3 MEG and
doesnt last as long consequently!


1637C BUZZED (C)
This is almost as good as the Landing demo but it only needs 3 MEG and
doesnt last as long consequently!


1638 REVENGE OF THE MUTANT CAMELS
Jeff Minter the hippy from Mars as ZERO once called him strikes back
at the full price market with another addictive game.


1639 GAMES GALORE 10
Gary Henderson sends you love and kisses and some games to enjoy as
well.  This is as you had guessed, then tenth in the series but it is
still as playable as all the others before.


1640 HYPERTEXT CHEATS
Includes Tricky V1 and V2, cheats for well over 100 games.  So now you
have no excuse!


1641 DEKSID
Another variant on the popular Sid program.  This has instructions and
is plus compatible.


1642 TERMINALITES
Some very, very useful utilities.


1645 HOME ACCOUNTS
Are your home accounts in a bit of a mess?  Yes? Well with the aid of
this fantastic program you can now make a mess of them on your humble
computer.


1646 RAY TRACE PICS
You know, somedays I just wake up and look at pictures that have been
raytraced.  Don`t you?


1647 SOME USEFUL INTROS?
Yes just for a change 17 Bit are proud to bring you some intros.  The
likes of which won`t be seen for at least a couple of hours!


1649 JETMAN
He returns to haunt you in this, his first AMIGA incarnation.


1650 SMASH TELLY
Just like Smash TV, written on SEUCK.


1651 ALIENS
Fairy snuff!  This is in reality just space invaders. But a damned
good one at that!


1652 BIRTY BIRD UTILITIES
Despite the really silly title, this disk does have some really useful
utilities.


1654 AMIBASE 2
The revenge of the database, yes killer databases from mars are back,
ready to eat all your information and display it in a colourful
display of pixelised pleasure.....Or something like that!


1655 BOOTBLOCK 1
Stacks of dead useful stuff for creating bootblocks.


1656 BOOTBLOCK 2
Stunningly enough this is full of.."Stacks of dead useful stuff for
creating bootblocks" as well!


1657 TAKE 2 ANIMATION
Yes, its a demonstration of the new ROMBO product. Amusing once,
Humorous twice, 3 times???? I turned it off.


1659 ANALOG DEMO
Hmmmm!  Very nice demos.  Tied together with a fly em up! I LURVE IT!
Dance music, sprite, coppers, the lot...All tied up with coding faster
than Steve eating a Hofmans Bun!


1662 ZIRCON UTILS
No, not a collection of routines for finding the planet Zircon, but
some rather natty routines to make your Amiga spring to life and run
around the room (Liar!).


1664 INNER MADNESS
Gibber, gibber, blurk, bloik, splifg, another mind boggling demo.  How
do they work out all those coords???


1665 STATIC BYTES VOL 9
The same veru high quality music as the previous volumes, get this no
matter what the cost.  (Unless you have a plus)


1666 DIGITAL DISCO 2
Oh yeaaaaaahhhhhhh!!!  Music to groove to, music to smooch to(?!?!?!),
music to wiggle to?  Music to have in your disk collection.


1670 HIP HOP HATER
A shame really as this title doesnt give justice to the demo lurking
beneath the sea of abysmalysm, coz this demo is anything but
absymal.....it is..and I quote MCB here:"Totally awsome!"


1671 LETHAL FORMULA
Another high quality disk that you must have in your collection as
long as you don`t own a plus!


1672A AT THE BEACH 2
Oh my god!!! Shwartz does a 3 Meg anim, that lasts for ages....And it
is fantastic, flip the frog and amy the squirrell go to the beach,
and....Amy goes sunbathing, much to the delight of a rather large
dog!(2 disks)


1672B AT THE BEACH 2
Oh my god!!! Shwartz does a 3 Meg anim, that lasts for ages....And it
is fantastic, flip the frog and amy the squirrell go to the beach,
and....Amy goes sunbathing, much to the delight of a rather large
dog!(2 disks)


1675 ROCKING ROBOT
Hey a raytraced anim of a rocking robot!


1676 JAMES WHALE ANIM
JJJJJames Whale..The Most Famous Man On Planet Earth, yeah? So why is
his show on a 1am, I watch it every week, and still find people who
have never heard of him.  If you are a fan of the show(like me), then
this disk is one to see!


1677 CANYON FLIGHT
A very impressive animation of a fighter plane flying canyon swooping
out, and then flying down a canyon again.  Loops forever!


1678 RAM JAM 6
Nice stereo music tracks played through a very nice looking stereo!


1680 ZENITH SLIDES
Get all your ST and non-Amiga owning friends round to check out these
grafix man!


1684A AMY VS WALKER 2 (A)
This is a very good spoof on the walker 2 demo, its by Shwartz, so
thats enough said! 3 meg though.


1684B AMY VS WALKER 2 (B)
This is a very good spoof on the walker 2 demo, its by Shwartz, so
thats enough said! 3 meg though.


1686 FLOOD SYSTEM
This has 70 cli commands for you to use abuse and enjoy!


1687 MIGA MASTER-NO SCREECHIN WOMAN!
Funky rave track backed by some very nice (if a bit wierd) samples.


1688 MIGA MASTER-RAVE HARD
As the title suggests, need I say more?


1689 MIGA MASTER-FUNK
Hey doods, bob to this funky beat from M.M. This one features loads of
sampled instruments.


1690 MIGA MASTER-GET DOWN AND BOOGY
The fourth disk in the series, not hardcore but good all the same.


1691 MIGA MASTER-THUNDER
The fifth, but probably not the last disk in the series.  Funky
backbeat with various overlayed samples.


1696 DEAD ALIEN REMIX
It had to happen! Freshly nicked from Alien Breed this music remix
incorporates all the ingame samples slung in for good measure, well it
made me giggle anyway!


1697 SCENERY CONSTRUCTION KIT
All you need to be able to generate scenery all day long! Contains
Genesis (demo), landscape, landbuilder v3 and cloud 9.


1698A VIDEO TITLERS
A two disk special crammed with utils for video titling etc. Includes
Animtools, Viditools, Graphicstools Sportstext, Introducer, TV
graphics and loads more!!


1698B VIDEO TITLERS
A two disk special crammed with utils for video titling etc. Includes
Animtools, Viditools, Graphicstools Sportstext, Introducer, TV
graphics and loads more!!


1699 JOURNAL
Look after your finances with this cashflow manager. Enter your
details and let the computer do all the hard work for you!


1700 AMICASH
If your cash flow just isnt flowing any more, let Amicash give you a
helping hand.  Packed with features, this should take care of most of
you money worries by working out an ideal budget.


1701 RADIO HAM DISK
This was included due to the growing number of you asking for it, some
of the things on here are beyond me so I wont even pretend to describe
them to you, but if your in the biz then it should be fairly straight
forward to you!


1702 ASSASINS BOOTBLOCKS
Everything you can imagine to do with bootblocks and more! Includes
Bootrepair, Menu Maker, Bootintro Scrollmaker and at least 40 others!!


1703 TEXTPLUS 3
A more professional approach to a word processor. Features include
full justification & edit facilities, macros screen modes and a whole
host of others.  Spell checker is also included on the disk.


1704 HOUSEHOLD INVENTORY
Keep a check on all your household valuables with this easy to use
inventory manager.  Good to keep record for insurance purposes. Really
useful if someone steals your Amiga and disks!


1705 NEWTYPE SLIDES
Good Dpaint slideshow backed by a pleasing toon.


1706 DPAINT FONTS
Contains well over 100 different (and unusual) fonts for use with
Dpaint or compatibles.


1707 ULTIMATE DISK CREATOR
10 utilities to help to create your own disks includes Menudisk
Creator, Bootwriter and others.


1708 AMSOFT CLIPART FONTS VOL.1
Can be used with Propage, Dpaint and compatibles.  Contains dozens on
IFF clip art images.


1709 AMSOFT CLIPART FONTS VOL.2
As above.


1710 CLASSIC GAMES COMPILATION
Titles included are Cave Runner, China Challenge, Frogger, Llamatron,
Super Twintris + others.


1711 QUARTZ SILICON SOUNDS
Very nice music disk which incorporates an original "Disk Meter" type
graphic equalizer.  Some tracks have definate techno roots.


1712 MUSIC OF THE WORLD
20 varied, good quality music tracks including a 4 bar graphic
equalizer.


1713 DPAINT FONTS
A collection of over 50 Different Dpaint Fonts.


1714 NIGHTSHADE `HARMONY` MUSIC DISK
For jazz and soft track lovers alike.  This disk includes 5 tracks of
very good quality music. One of the tracks is an original 'sung' in
the karaoke style by an unknown female!


1715 T2 DANCE REMIX
Terminate the dance floor with this excellent music.


1716 PARACHUTE JOUST
An excellent 1 or 2 player game, try to wrestle
the parachute away from your oponent before one of yoy hits the
ground! Seb's favourite!


1718A WHOM 2 V2.42
Information from every conceivable cult TV
program spadged into a whopping great big database.  Just some
of the DOZENS!! include Battle Star Galactica, Captain Scarlet,
Day Of The Triffids, Dr Who, Joe 90, Hitchikers Guide, the list
is endless!!


1718B WHOM 2 V2.42
Information from every conceivable cult TV
program spadged into a whopping great big database.  Just some
of the DOZENS!! include Battle Star Galactica, Captain Scarlet,
Day Of The Triffids, Dr Who, Joe 90, Hitchikers Guide, the list
is endless!!


1719A GIGA MEGA MIX
This disk features Acid, House, Techno, Hip Hop and Hardcore, it is
truly awesome. Some of the language used in part of the demo is likely
to cause offence to some people but is enjoyable all the same.


1719B GIGA MEGA MIX
This disk features Acid, House, Techno, Hip Hop and Hardcore, it is
truly awesome. Some of the language used in part of the demo is likely
to cause offence to some people but is enjoyable all the same.


1720 UTILS
Mixed utility disk includes SuperDuper and Sysinfo among others.


1721 MORE UTILS
This time includes Seeker and Filelocator to make the task of scouring
disks for a particular file much easier!


1722 DIPLOMACY
Superbly written (almost commercial quality) version of the boardgame
with the same name. An excellent global strategy game!


1724 ARCADE GAMES
7 classic arcade games from dragonlord. Titles include Galaxians,
asteroids and everybodies fave, Missile Command!


1728 500 THINGS: I'M JESUS, I'M GOD, I'M SATAN
Nic Cusworth brings us yet another quality music disk, a sequel to 500
Things the comeback.


1732 QUADRIX
Written by Geoff Sparkes using Amos, Quadrix is a very competent
puzzle game where blocks of the same design are matched (by
collision) and eliminated in a given time limit.  Very good!


1733 PLUS! VOL 1
Bits and bats of plus compatible stuff including SuperDuper, Picsaver,
Mandelvroom and Starstruck


1734 PLUS! VOL 2
Another compilation including Tetris, Cloud 9, Wavebench and Sim-Gen
(Allows Hi-Res pictures to be displayed instead of the sad old
workbench! Impressive.)


1735 ESCAPE 2
A playable demo of a shareware game, Arcade strategy including level
designer/tester and compiler/  Pick up keys to open a series of doors
before the floor collapses and you plunge into oblivion!


1737 TOO MUCH 3D
I agree.


1738A FRACTAL LANDSCAPES
Two disks full of fractally generated landscapes for all you you
fractal lovers to ponder over!


1738A FRACTAL LANDSCAPES
Two disks full of fractally generated landscapes for all you you
fractal lovers to ponder over!


1739 SUPERKILLERS
Includes V-Checker 6, Bootx 4.4, Zerovirus 3 V1.2, VT 2.37.


1741 SURVIVOR
Excellent futuristic R.P.G, your space vessel is overrun by unknown
alien forms, your crew slaughtered You are the only survivor.  Select
your character then hunt down and destroy the aliens increasing your
experience as you go.  Highly reccomended!


1742 WASTELANDS
Excellent game in the `Driller` tradition, move around and explore a
vast futuristic landscape to complete your mission.


1745 FINAL CONFESSION DEMO
An excellent demo using some impressive routines.  Highly reccomended
if it was not due to the fact that some harsh language has been used.
Not for the kids.


1747 DEMOLITION MISSION
Good re-vamp of the old classic.  Bomb the buildings to make a clear
landing strip!  Witten in Amos.


1748 YUM YUM
This game never changes! Written in Amos, its good for all age groups.


1750 PROTRACKER 2
An upgrade to the ever popular Protracker series.  Become a music
maestro overnight!


1751 THE DISK WITH NO NAME
Hear the name LSD and you expect something special, this disk is no
different in that respect.  A funky toon plays in the background for
that little bit extra.


1755 BLACK TIGER STAR MIX
Full of games, utils and copiers, includes Shanghai, Bolderdash, Sid,
Asteroids, Tetris, Tiles, Tascopy, Menumaster and that's just a few.


1756 DOLLY MIXTURE 21
Intros Compilation featuring Nemesis, TSB, Rebels + Others. All are of
the quality you would expect from some of the top demo groups around.


1759A KING JAMES BIBLE
The complete King James bible spread over 4 disks.


1759B KING JAMES BIBLE
The complete King James bible spread over 4 disks.


1759C KING JAMES BIBLE
The complete King James bible spread over 4 disks.


1759D KING JAMES BIBLE
The complete King James bible spread over 4 disks.


1760 VIDEO APPLICATIONS VOL 1
Various Utilities for use with video projects includes
stillstore,logtape and others


1761 VIDEO APPLICATIONS VOL 2
More video utils but this time including various fonts and animtools


1762 FONTS
Over a dozen of the less common fonts, some contained on the disk are
Rangers, Celtic, Paignot, Aldous + many more.


1763 TV GRAPHICS
Stacks of graphics, Pics and screens to use with video projects or
just to look at in DPaint. Some screens include fancy stars, gem,
blue bars, chrome, hearts, mountains + others.


1764 SUPER SKODA CHALLENGE
Good Amos game for up to four players, very much a micky take of super
sprint but with Skodas!


1765 GAMETAMER
A disk for all the budding ultimate gamesters!  Disk includes loads of
cheats of all the latest and greatest games presented by a very nice
front end menu.  Disk also includes a joystick tester?!


1766 SWV TORNADO SLIDESHOW
A must for aircraft enthusiasts, this disk features loads of hand
drawn hi res slides of the Tornado in action


1767 AMOS FRACTAL GENERATOR
Yet another fractal generator to add to your collection. Disk
includes a generator and a slideshow of pre generated stuff.


1769 CLASSIC UTILS
We seem to be getting quite a few util disks in at the moment, this
one contains 19 very assorted utils includes Imploder v4, SID 1.06,
Powerpacker, Picsaver and loads of others.


1770 ICON NIGHTMARE
This disk contains upwards of 150 ripped icons for you to use.  Can
easily be modified to suit your own needs


1771 SOUNDTRACKER INSTRUMENTS
Over 120 varied instruments include loads of bass, cymbals, snare drum
and other percussion stuff.


1772A THE FINAL FRONTIER (A)
It had to happen, with the massive cult following of Star Trek, here
comes a disk mag dedicated to the subject! Included are book/video
reviews, convention news and artwork done by none other than Tobias
himself!


1772B THE FINAL FRONTIER (B)
It had to happen, with the massive cult following of Star Trek, here
comes a disk mag dedicated to the subject! Included are book/video
reviews, convention news and artwork done by none other than Tobias
himself!


1773 ANGELS EVOLUTION
It's got to be a demo.


1774 LSD CHEATS DISK
This one is entitle Absolute Adventurer and its not joking!  Includes
Black Crypt maps (already??)  Ultima VI hints Populous 2, Elvira,
Spacequest IV and Larry V solution.


1775 EDWORD
A very nice, basic and easy to use text editor with a whole host of
features including wordcount, text casing and full edit facilities.
Includes docs.


1776 LEMMINGS ANIMATION
An animation of, er, some lemmings.


1777 VIKING SAGA
As the title suggests, this disk is more of an education than a demo
(the artwork and anims make is very atmospheric).  Watch and learn as
the vikings invade and plunder the villages.


1779 BRIAN BOLLAND SLIDES
... down a hill? ... across a greasy floor? No. Brian Bolland presents
some slides he's done.


1780 KEFRENS MEGAMIX (MULTIMIX 2)
What can be said about this way out cut up, reverbed hardcore dance
track mix apart from if its your scene, get it!


1781 CAT DEMO
This is a must for anyone's demo collection and would not look out of
place next to Hardwired!  Pure Excellence on a disk!


1784 SOFTWARE FAILURE
Not a bad demo this one, not up to the standard of some of the bigger
groups but good all the same.


1786 HEADCHANGE ANIM
Another anim for anim collectors.


1787 ROBOT HEAD ANIM
Yet another animation.


1789 DEADBEAT VOL 1
Another hardcore compilation featuring 3 tracks


1790 AMIRAGE DISK MENU
A menu packed with the latest utils including Diskmaster v3.2,
Powerpacker, Med etc.


1794 AMOS UPDATER 1.32
This disk updates older versions of Amos to version 1.32.


1795 IMAGE UTILS
Utilities on this disk include Imagelab, TitleGen & others.


1796A THE A64 EMULATOR
The complete C64 emulator for your A500.


1796B THE A64 EMULATOR
The complete C64 emulator for your A500.


1797 TFB UTILS (BEERMON 4)
A new machine code monitor similar to Amon and Cmon which includes a
full screen editor.  Full docs also provided.


1798 SCREAM - FACE THE REALITY (1/2)
A very good 2 disk megademo in loads of parts.  Nicely coded and put
together with a pleasing beat for the background.


1799 SCREAM - FACE THE REALITY (2/2)
A very good 2 disk megademo in loads of parts.  Nicely coded and put
together with a pleasing beat for the background.


1802 MUSIC MANIA
Med, Soundtracker, Startrekker, Noisetracker etc.  This is the
ultimate music creation disk.


1803 TANKS
Harks back to the good old days of the Atari 2600, mega arcade classic
revamped. Superb Pd game.


1804 SLIDESHOW GENERATOR
Far superior than the earlier one in the library, everything is here
to make life easier for you to create your own stunning slideshow
disks. Bun factor 9.


1805 HAWK EARTHS SORROW
A new group on the scene with a wopper of a demo, bobs vectors,
plasma, you name there all here in this awesome 68000 masterpiece.


1806 ELECTRONIC KNIGHTS TEXTRO
Posh word for mega demo, another must for all you graphic and music
freaks!.


1807 INTROS
Love em or hate em they seem to be here to stay, although we don't put
that many In the library anymore. This fares quite well with good
stuff from all the latest crews.


1808 PLUS ISSUE 5
The disks especially compiled for + owners Is now on issue 5, contents
as follows.  Sys Info, Print Studio, Fix disk plus many more, an
essential purchase for new Amiga owners.


1809 ALCHEMY DEMO
Alchemy go from strength to strength with another smashing mega demo
loves.


1810 A NIGHT AT THE TOP
Brilliant Text only adventure By Trygue Jensen (Swedish Perv).


1811 EDIT KEYS
Featured In Amiga Format as the most user friendly keymap editor to
date, another essential purchase for you co processor corner teckie
lovers everywhere. Bun factor 10


1813 BIT TECH UTILS
At just 0.0000000001p per utility you just can't go wrong, features,
Clockdoctor, Byte Killer, Disk Format, Flash Disk, + about 185 more.


1814 MIKE ARCHERS BASS
A 17-Bit regular Is our Mike, this Is his latest compilation of dance
orientated rave tracks, get pissed and groove to these rare cuts
mr's!!!!


1817 HARD DRIVE CLICK
Written for 17-Bit By Claude Miller, It generates a very nice menu
Screen for all you lucky people with a GVP or any other hard drive for
that matter again heavily reviewed in Amiga Format


1818 ASTRO SLIDES
No not Russell Grant without his kegs, but beautiful pictures of the
stars above, give me a telescope I just love heavenly bodies.


1819 SERENE 1
An Arcade shoot em up of the highest order, well for PD anyway.


1821 SERENE 3
The last in the trilogy, and probably the best.


1822 ELECTRO CAD 1.4
Go blind while trying to create your own mukahato 5000 ram chip
stabilizer. You really do need a monitor for this one. CAD (Computer
aided design package).


1825 BASS SUBLIMINAL VERSION
Wow what a demo, If these guys start doing games you can kiss goodbye
to the Famicoms of this world.


1827A MANIC RAVES 2
Brilliant 4 disk mega mix riddled with amazing tunes, sorry not Plus
compatible.


1827B MANIC RAVES 2
Brilliant 4 disk mega mix riddled with amazing tunes, sorry not Plus
compatible.


1827C MANIC RAVES 2
Brilliant 4 disk mega mix riddled with amazing tunes, sorry not Plus
compatible.


1827D MANIC RAVES 2
Brilliant 4 disk mega mix riddled with amazing tunes, sorry not Plus
compatible.


1828 FORMS REALLY UNLIMITED
Create your own forms for every occasion, sorry but it doesn't come
with a free printer!


1829 ANIMATED POINTERS
Lots of great low K factor animated pointers to grace your own
workbench disks.


1831 INTROS COMP
Another demo collection from around the globe, Kefrens, Scoopex You
name It there all here.


1832 FORTRAN COMPILER
Bored with C, had enough of Amiga Basic, then cop a load of this mega
fortran Compiler.


1833 GROWTH - THE GAME
Arcade action in this Amiga Format classic amiga pd game.


1834 WORM HOLE
Amazingly playable game where you have to collect the numbers.


1835 PERM CHECK
Is it a demmy or really tight, yes you can actually check to the exact
PH(Acid Test)value of your new perm with perm check!!!. Tells you when
to wash your hair for maximum curl factor.  As used by paul Michael
Glaser of Starsky and Hutch fame!!!! (Only kidding, use with football
pools)


1837 CARWARS AND INVADERS
Brand new games comp, A superb Invaders clone and an Arcade perfect
Carwars.


1838 VIRUS KILLERS
Lots and lots of virus killers, don't get caught by old virus, this
disk contains some slightly old virus killers that still detect some
of the older virus better than newer ones.


1839 BACH CONCERTO'S NO 1 + 2
Superb Classical music, done on sonix


1840 BACH CONCERTO'S NO 3 + 4
As above


1841 BACH CONCERTO'S NO 5 + 6
Same as the other 2 above.  All composed by Rob Baxter and all a must
for all classical fans.


1842 PLUS ISSUE 6
Another in the series of + owners disks, this time we have, dragon
tiles, Disk talk, target, and many more.


1843 PLUS ISSUE 7
+ owners disk, Textra, No Click, Mandelbrot, raid


1844 FRUSTRATION
A text adventure from Jim Macbayne, responsible for the holy grail,
this adventure is his best yet.  Packed with atmosphere, sorry but you
plus owners can't play It.


1845 LEMMINGOIDS
Asteroids with lemmings as sprites, very playable and very funny!!!


1846 CHINA SHOP
A great game of dexterity, and patience


1847 SPELL CHECK 1.3
A new spell checker on the Amiga Scene. Seems to do the job very wel.


1848 RADBENCH +
At last a version of the ever popular ram res Workbench for Plus
owners. Stops in memory until you power off.  Mega!!!


1849 PLUS ISSUE 9
This time you Plus owners get lots of Icon development tools, and
mandelvroom, a very fast fractal generator.  Great Mate!!!


1850 RUMMY
Brilliant version of this superb card game.


1855 FONT FARM
Another smash disk from Gary henderson, all the fonts you could ever
need on one brill disk.


1856 LIVE AND LET DIE
Another great Gary Henderson disk, He's now moved up to a shiny new
Amiga +, so here comes his WB2 disk.  Lots of utils for and games for
the Plus owner, In the same vein as PLUS disks but a little more
polished.


1857 ICONS GALORE
Does Gary Henderson ever stop, another Plus only disk crammed full of
great Icons, 99.99999% full to be exact.


1860 CYBERDINE ANIM
Droid animation (1meg)


1861 IN THE MIX
Jack2 92, rave hard mix boogie along to this one.


1862 BUG BLASTER
A brilliant game that emulates Scentipede to the letter. Brilliant!!!


1863 RAVE
More rave tracks to smashed to, just find a warehouse to play them In.


1864 DYNAMITE FONTS 1
Crammed with latest fonts of the moment.


1865 WIGGLE DIS
More dance remixes for all you hardcore fans. Play loud or not.


1867 SID 2
The very best version of this the most popular Utility on the Amiga
today, handles file swaping with ease.  Works on 1.3 and 2.0 machines.


1868 GAMES
One of the best Games disks at the moment, features Tetrix (the best
ever version of tetris), Target and raid.


1870 BALL LIGHTNING
Very annoying bouncy ball game that should keep you up into the small
hours.


1871 AXIS
Unknown territory, Superb demo from Axis with all the processor power
being put to maximum effect!!!


1872 PUGGLES
A great game that basically is a Q Bert rip off, but dont knock it for
that, buy it now!!!


1873 POWERBENCH 1.0
Another WB derivative, very much like windows bench, lots of useful
programs behind a very nice WB front end.


1875 VIRUS PROGRAMS
Anti Virus 5.04 and Boot X 4.47, both the very latest versions


1876A LSD MUSIC PACK
A superb LSD 4 disk music pack, released at the Anarchy 92 party In
Barnsley.  Bloody great


1876B LSD MUSIC PACK
A superb LSD 4 disk music pack, released at the Anarchy 92 party In
Barnsley.  Bloody great


1876C LSD MUSIC PACK
A superb LSD 4 disk music pack, released at the Anarchy 92 party In
Barnsley.  Bloody great


1876D LSD MUSIC PACK
A superb LSD 4 disk music pack, released at the Anarchy 92 party In
Barnsley.  Bloody great


1877 SIMON SPACE MATHS
One for the younger user, play along with simon and learn maths at the
same time.  Great fun.


1878 TOTAL WARS
This Excellent game has been featured heavily in the press!!!!


1879 GELEGNITE FONTS
More super fonts to use on your own programs


1880A MAGNA SLIDESHOW (1/2)
One of the best presented slideshows I have ever seen, Absolutely
stunning.


1880B MAGNA SLIDESHOW (2/2)
One of the best presented slideshows I have ever seen, Absolutely
stunning.


1882 MOBED 2
A brilliant Paint package, very versatile and also easy to use. Comes
with full documentation too.


1883 ANDROMEDA DOS
Brilliant demo by Andromeda all shown in an AmigaDOS window.


1885 PHEONIX INTROS COMP
Another feature packed demos comp from Pheonix.


1886 ANARCHY MUSIC DISK
As always Anarchy always come out on top, this time is no exception,
with a stunning music extravaganza.


1889 DEFORM DEMO
Another high-quality demo from one the top groups at the moment.


1891A GRAPEVINE 9 (1/2)
The very best disk mag available, LSD bring you the best ever read on
your Trusty Amiga.  Buy it now!!!!


1891B GRAPEVINE 9 (2/2)
The very best disk mag available, LSD bring you the best ever read on
your Trusty Amiga.  Buy it now!!!!


1892 SANITY GLAMOROUS LIFE
Another top notch music disk from Sanity.


1893 KRESS MASS OVERLOAD
Only available from 17-Bit, this one won the the Anarchy 92 Barnsley
demo comp amidst stiff competition.  This particular part of the
competition was judged and sponsored by 17-Bit!!!


1894 ANARCHY BIG TIME
Another Anarchy Production from said party.  Came third in the music
comp.


1895 MR BUNS STASH
Keybang, Amidex, And the best boot block generator available for
leaving a message on the front of your own disks.


1896 LES GRADO SLIDES
In black and white but still effective, a great demo of the graphics
capabilities of you machine.


1897 GHOST
Music disc, very well presented with stacks of features.


1898 DIGITAL TRASH
Took 2nd place at the Anarchy 92 party.  Superb demo with all the
features you would expect from a top quality Digital production.


1899A DRUMS AND REVERB
A superb 2 disk music disk, great production and lots of coding
prowess in this mega music pack.


1899B DRUMS AND REVERB
A superb 2 disk music disk, great production and lots of coding
prowess in this mega music pack.


1984 BATTLE CARS 2
A very good follow up to the First one, lots of 3D driving action and
fun.


1985A PROJECT TECHNO (MUSIC)
35 minutes of non stop bang yer ed hardcore remix, believe me you'll
need 3 shredded wheat before you tackle this musical frenzy!!!!!!


1985B PROJECT TECHNO (MUSIC)
35 minutes of non stop bang yer ed hardcore remix, believe me you'll
need 3 shredded wheat before you tackle this musical frenzy!!!!!!


1986 RACE RATER (UTILITY)
Another race horse predictor, full of statistics for most race types,
just type current form and race going and the program will try It's
best to pick you a winner.


1987 KATHARIS DEMO
All the usual you expect in a demo of this kind, love em or hate em!,
this ones is quite good.


1988A MINOR DEFECTS (MUSIC)
A superb 3 disk Music compilation from Grace, all original pieces of
Amiga Music probably done on soundtracker.


1988B MINOR DEFECTS (MUSIC)
A superb 3 disk Music compilation from Grace, all original pieces of
Amiga Music probably done on soundtracker.


1988C MINOR DEFECTS (MUSIC)
A superb 3 disk Music compilation from Grace, all original pieces of
Amiga Music probably done on soundtracker.


1989 FIRE FIGHTER
A very average game where you have to put out fires across lots of
levels, Written in Amos.


1990 ON LINE (GAMES CHEATS)
Lots of games cheats on one massive data base.


1991 STRATA DEMO (PRODUCT DEMO)
Very much like land Builder, create your own fractal landscapes, this
is only the demo version so dont expect too much.


1993 PHOENIX SLIDESHOW
What can I say about this disk except it's the Phoenix Slideshow.


1994 GLOBE (ANIM)
Another from the Dave Taylor stable, A world globe spins on a very
nice background, obviously you need 1 meg.


1995 ALCATRAZ MUSEUM 92 (SLIDESHOW)
Superb compilation of some of the best Artwork of the last few months,
all bolted together as only Alcatraz Know how.  Superb in every way.
Bun factor 9


1996A ACTION DIRECT HEXADECIMAL PERFECTION (DEMO)
Another of those so called Mega demo's all top notch stuff on 2 great
disks.


1996B ACTION DIRECT HEXADECIMAL PERFECTION (DEMO)
Another of those so called Mega demo's all top notch stuff on 2 great
disks.


1997 PARALLAX METRO 2 (DEMO)
One of the best ever vector demos and believe me I've seen a lot.
Superb presentation, and one of the best demos of recent months. Bun
factor 10.


1999 PARADISE TECHNO (MUSIC)
More boring techno music, If you like It you'll love If not steer well
clear.


2003A PARADISE OPTIMUS MAXIMUS (DEMO)
Another 2 disk demo, again this one is of a very high standard, one
for the collectors.


2003B PARADISE OPTIMUS MAXIMUS (DEMO)
Another 2 disk demo, again this one is of a very high standard, one
for the collectors.


2004 INTENSE RAVE VISION (MUSIC)
Wow heavy hardcore, get your basin head cuts out for this one, It will
have chillin all through the night, Honest.


2005 FATAL MISSION (GAME)
A nice PD game of the shoot em up variety, also there is a version of
the Arcade classic Pong on the same disk.


2006 BIORYTHMS (UTILITY)
At last a comprehensive Biorythms program on the Amiga, also on the
disk are few other utils and games all written by the same author, an
immensely enjoyable disk.  Thanks to Richard Smedley for sending it to
us.


2007 SPEEDY WB (UTILITY)
Do you get fed up of loading WB up to check Fish Disks or for programs
that dont have WB onboard?, well look no further.  This disk will
create a very fast loading WB (About 1.5 seconds) on to another disk,
just follow the onscreen prompts.  you can also have a more
comprehensive WB with Usefull utils as well.  Bun factor 10. (You
need 2 drives as well)


2008 WAR (GAME)
Fantastic Strategy game from the Author of battle cars, contains the
Kind of playabilty you only find on the best 8 Bit games, an essential
purchase for PD gamers everywhere. Bun Factor 10.


2009 NOVA + DOG (GAMES)
2 very similar Puzzle games, totally engrossing, and great fun.


2010 P-COMPRESS (UTILITY)
A very good Utility lifted off some of the latest Fish disks.


2011 AMIGA COLUMNS (GAME)
Very Good version of Columns, a bit like Tetris but you need more
thought In placing the blocks due to the color factor.


2012 TECHNO STUFF (MUSIC)
Music to dance the night away to!


2013 KORG SAMPLES
Superb disks crammed full of home grown instruments and samples.


2014 KORG SAMPLES
Superb disks crammed full of home grown instruments and samples.


2015 KORG SAMPLES
Superb disks crammed full of home grown instruments and samples.


2016 COLOR CLIPART
A varied selection of pictures all In color.


2017 COLOR CLIPART
A varied selection of pictures all In color.


2018 BITS + BATS 2 (THE BUN RETURNS)
Excellent compilation of PD from around the world, all put together by
the legendary Mr Bun.  Contents:- Fitness/Mostra/Shift + others.


2020 WOTS IT'S NAME (GAME)
Great new quiz game written In Amos, should give you and your friends
hours of fun.


2021 TESSA + SIEVE (UTILITY)
A weird program that produces patterns of an Acidy nature.  Who knows
this could be the answer to all your stress problems, view these for
10 minutes and you'll think your an ageing Hippy reliving Woodstock!!
Written by R Kelly.


2022 AMOS CRICKET (GAME)
Fairly good version of cricket, and If I'm not mistaken the very first
version on PD.


2023 WORD POWER (UTILITY)
Superb Disk crammed with all things Wordy?, Anagram solvers ETC, from
the Programmer of Powerbench on LPD, an essential purchase!.


2024A A TO Z OF 64 TUNES (1/4)
All your favourite Commodore 64 game music Classics played back on the
realistic SID music player, From Armalyte TO Zoids there all here,
Plus a special tribute to the best 64 music programmers of all time.
Superb to say the least. Bun Factor 10!


2024B A TO Z OF 64 TUNES (2/4)
All your favourite Commodore 64 game music Classics played back on the
realistic SID music player, From Armalyte TO Zoids there all here,
Plus a special tribute to the best 64 music programmers of all time.
Superb to say the least. Bun Factor 10!


2024C A TO Z OF 64 TUNES (3/4)
All your favourite Commodore 64 game music Classics played back on the
realistic SID music player, From Armalyte TO Zoids there all here,
Plus a special tribute to the best 64 music programmers of all time.
Superb to say the least. Bun Factor 10!


2024D A TO Z OF 64 TUNES (4/4)
All your favourite Commodore 64 game music Classics played back on the
realistic SID music player, From Armalyte TO Zoids there all here,
Plus a special tribute to the best 64 music programmers of all time.
Superb to say the least. Bun Factor 10!


2025 FORMULA 1 DEMO (GAME)
This is a Demo version of the very popular game on Deja-Vu.


2026 POWERBASE (UTILITY)
Another demo of a popular Deja-Vu title, It works but obviously some
have the features have been removed.


2027 SWEET REVENGE (ANIM)
Coyotee IS back in another well executed 2 meg anim, very polished and
very funny.


2028 WILLYS CASTLE OF DREAMS (GAME)
One of the best games disks around, features a great puzzle game
called Satu, a superb Defender clone called Invaders, and of course
Willys Castle Of Dreams, and to top It all off they all work on an
Amiga +! Brilliant Stuff.


2031 TRAILBLAIZER (GAME)
This is just one of the games on this disk which is entitled Classics
2. The game is brilliant and is a perfect example of superb PD.


2032 MAGNUM 1.0 (UTILITY)
Ever wanted to create your own disk mag? then this is the program for
you. Very easy to use, comes with docs and a pretend mag already
created, very much a grapevine feel to the whole thing, but obviously
not as polished. All in all a very different PD product, If you are
looking for something a bit different then why not give it a try.


2033 PLUS ISSUE 12 (UTILS/GAMES)
Another instalment of games and utils for your new Amiga, Calendar,
plasma, Wb gauge, to mention a few.


2036A HALF BRAIN (1/2)
A mega demo with a difference, you get bit of quiz at the end!


2036B HALF BRAIN (2/2
A mega demo with a difference, you get bit of quiz at the end!


2037 LSD TECHNO WARRIOR (MUSIC)
The very best Techno disk around, 24 minutes of non stop hardcore from
LSD, one that has to beaten.


2038 ALL TIME INTRO'S COMP (DEMO)
Wow a new Intro's comp in the library, these for me got very boring
about 1 year ago, this one however is an exception, very nice indeed.


2039 MUMBO JUMBO (MUSIC)
Great little disk full of original tunes, lots going off on screen and
very original.


2040 BAHRAIN IN THE PAST (SLIDESHOW)
A disk from one of our foreign members that should appeal to people
from said place.


2042 PROTRACKER 2.2 (UTILITY)
The legendary music sequencer Is now fully plus compatible, also on
the disk is a great WB2 only PC emulator and the latest version of
Dir Work.  The file handler from Chris Haymes.


2043A GRAPEVINE 10 (1/3)
What can be said about this disk mag that already hasn't been said,
this issue is a bumper 3 disk ride into oblivion.  The best disk mag
in the world, packed with articles and reviews from all walks of the
Amiga field.


2043B GRAPEVINE 10 (2/3)
What can be said about this disk mag that already hasn't been said,
this issue is a bumper 3 disk ride into oblivion.  The best disk mag
in the world, packed with articles and reviews from all walks of the
Amiga field.


2043C GRAPEVINE 10 (3/3)
What can be said about this disk mag that already hasn't been said,
this issue is a bumper 3 disk ride into oblivion.  The best disk mag
in the world, packed with articles and reviews from all walks of the
Amiga field.


2044 SATURN FLY BY ANIMATION (ANIM)
A 1 meg animation of a probe flying past Saturn, not much more I can
say about it really.


2048 CRICKET GAME (GAME)
A superb PD cricket game that is feature packed with options. This is
not the full version, which is available from the author for a small
fee. But nonetheless it is still very playable.


2050 ORDER V1.7 (UTILITY)
A great home grown data base, easy to use with results very fast!


2051 BALDY (GAME)
Try to polish that bald head before the timer runs out!.  No only
kidding this is a very arcade style game with stacks of playability.


2052 C JEREMY MUSIC 2 (MUSIC)
A collection of about 7 tunes all composed on med by C Jeremy, check
out his other disks if you are impressed with this one.


2055 APPLE CATCHER (GAME)
Nice little arcade style puzzle game written in Amos but still very
good.


2057 KEFRENS (DEMO)
From Kefrens inspiration has come, a nice demo from one of the best
crews around


2059 DIRMASTER (UTILITY)
All those people with a Plus or A600 cannot use Diskmaster 3.2 but
this a very good file handler that works fine on these new machines,
this program IS a must for anybody wanting to faf around with CLI
and files in general.


2060 ESCAPE V2.2 (GAME)
A new version of the ever popular game, heavily featured in the
computer press.


2061 RPG ADVENTURE CREATOR (GAME)
All you Goblin and Yorik boys can now make each other games with this
great disk, perfect for passing the time until Eye Of The Beholder 3
comes out. Comes with comprehensive instructions on disk.


2063 HARPSICHORD MUSIC
Rob Baxter really delivers when it comes to classical conversions,
this one is no exception. Beautifully programmed on sonix, sounds
superb and it's a welcome change from all the normal music disks
around.  Well done Rob.


2064 GOSPEL KARAOKE (DEMO/MUSIC)
From Complex comes one of the most original demo/music disks to date.
I won't even begin to describe the disk, just buy it and enjoy.


2065 IN THE KITCHEN (DEMO)
Anarchy return after a brief break with a corker of a demo.  Smashing
lovely super didn't they do well.


2066A SILENTS EXPOSE (DEMO)
A great 2 disk mega demo from Silents the people who teamed up with
Crionics for Hardwired. A great 2 disk set to show off your machines
capabilities.


2066B SILENTS EXPOSE (DEMO)
A great 2 disk mega demo from Silents the people who teamed up with
Crionics for Hardwired. A great 2 disk set to show off your machines
capabilities.


2067 SOUNDTRACKER (UTILITY)
At last a version of the legendary music sequencer thats works on Plus
and A600 machines.  This Is the one they all use, most commercial game
music Is written on this program despite public opinion that Med Or
Protracker Is superior. Make your own mind up.


2068 VIRUS KILLERS (UTILITY)
We all know that 1739 (Super Killers) is by far the best virus killer
disk, but this disk contains certain little killers you should'nt be
without, lets say there's room for them both In your disk box.


2070 GAS TURBINE (EDUCATIONAL)
A very basic animation of the gas turbine engine.  Strictly for
educational purposes only though.  It ain't no Anti Lemming anim.


2071 PETROL ENGINE (EDUCATIONAL)
Same as above but this time a petrol engine.


2072 STEAM ENGINE (EDUCATIONAL)
Another in the functional anims see how a steam engine really works.


2073 BRONX DEMO 2 (DEMO)
The second instalment from Bronx, a demo that betters the first one
easily.


2074 MR WOBBLY (GAME)
Platform action from Mr Wobbly, guide him through screen after screen
of hot sticky playability.


2075 OCTAMED 1.01
Another music sequencer this time with 8 channels rather than 4.  Not
bad but very tricky to use.


2078 NESTER CARD GAME (GAME)
A superb card game that will have you engrossed for hours and hours


2079 DOMINOES (GAME)
At last a version Dominoes that Is PD, the first one I've seen. Not
bad If you can't wait for the working mens club to open and you are
dying for a quick game.


2080 GOTTA GO (ANIM)
A very nice D-Paint style anim, you need a minimum of 1 meg for this
one.


2081 INSTRUMENTS (MUSIC)
About 40 original samples for you to use with your favorite music
program.


2082 MORTGAGE CALC (UTILITY)
This is just one of the programs of this excellent utility disk.


2083 PHONO BOMB (MUSIC)
A superb music disk well presented and bristling with originality.


2084 HI-RES SLIDES (SLIDESHOW)
A collection of the very best artwork around all in dynamic hi-res.


2086 PALACE LINUS
Very original anim/demo from Palace, very much in the mould of the
Rolo type Black and White advertisements.


2087 OLD BULLS (DEMO)
A new crew on the scene with a demo to match any of the old crews.
Amazing!


2088 MELLON (DEMO)
SOS from Melon takes their coding prowess to new heights, no self
respecting demo collector should be without this one.


2090 SOCCER CARDS (GAME)
A very original football game from the land of Oz, you play the game
by a selection of playing cards.  Sounds a bit daft but you soon get
totally engrossed in the action.


2091 MEGA CHEATS 2 (UTILITY)
Lots of hacks and cheats for all your favorite games that you just
can't master.


2093 B+W PICTURE CONVERTER (UTILITY)
Got any great pictures in black and white that need just a touch of
colour. Then look no further than this great PD disk.


2096A VISTA SLIDES (SLIDESHOW)
Great pictures created with utility Vista, fractal a GO GO on these 2
mega disks.


2096B VISTA SLIDES (SLIDESHOW)
Great pictures created with utility Vista, fractal a GO GO on these 2
mega disks.


2099 HARDCORE (MUSIC)
Yet another in the long line of acid/drug taking music remixes. Blast
your ear drums with great music disk.


2100 TRAILBLAZER (GAME)
Another version of the old C64 game, guide the ball down increasingly
harder courses in this brilliant PD games disk.


2101 FRACSCAPE (UTILITY)
A program that will generate landscapes similar to Vista but obviously
not as good. Written in Amos and well worth a look. If you are fractal
biased.


2102 ANALOG (DEMO)
Falling from Analog sets new standards for Amiga demos In general, a
first rate piece of code and a must for all demo freaks.


2103A COLOR CRIME (DEMO)
Sadly not Plus compatible, another quality demo that really doesn't
show us anything new but good anyway.


2103B COLOR CRIME (DEMO)
Sadly not Plus compatible, another quality demo that really doesn't
show us anything new but good anyway.


2105 GAMES GALORE 11 (GAME)
That man Henderson is back with another compilation of the best PD
games around at the moment.  He has recently moved upto a WB2 rom
machine so we can safely say they are all + and A600 Compatible.


2107 CASTLE NOMIS (GAME)
A Dungeon master clone written in Amos.  Not bad but not terribly
good, but then it is PD.


2110 TANK ATTACK (GAME)
Remember the old Atari 2600 classic, well It's been totally enhanced
for this great PD version.  Try to kill your opponent while watching
your own back.  Great fun.


2111 RESCUE (GAME)
A great mix of all game types brings rescue firmly to the forefront of
PD gameing.


2112 BON APPETIT (UTILITY)
One for all you Chefs out there, a data base manager for all your
favorite recipes.  There are a few on the disk to start you off but
the main aim of the disk is to allow you to create your very own.


2113 CUSTOM ICONS (UTILITY)
Wow! over 100 custom icons on 1 disk, an icon for every occasion.


2114A ORACLE (UTILITY)
A weird program this, based around runestones and the like, could be
loosely called a fortune teller.  Provides hours of fun whichever way
you look at it.


2114B ORACLE (UTILITY?)
A weird program this, based around runestones and the like, could be
loosely called a fortune teller.  Provides hours of fun whichever way
you look at it.


2115 NIB V2 (COPIER)
Nib is a very useful little copier, there is an A to Z of games which
the programmer knows NIB can copy, in this case you just select the
title of the game and NIB automatically configures to the copy routine
suitable. If the game is not there, you just have try various ways for
your self.


2116 MAYHEM ON WHEELS 3 (ANIM)
After the success of the other 2 It's no surprise that number 3 found
It's way onto my desk.  More great car and bike spills and thrills, I
think I should point out that all these anims are of accidents where
nobody was hurt.


2118 DREADLOCK 3 (DISK MAG)
Not quite upto Grapevine standards but still a damn good read anyway.


2119 RAW ISSUE 3 (DISK MAG)
Raw just goes from strength to strength, a great disk mag.  One of the
best ways to get to know whats happening on the Amiga scene for the
price of a blank disk.


2120 DARK DEMON (DEMO)
Yet another demo, Trackmo, or whatever you want to call them. Very
Nice and as I've said before the perfect way to make those ST owning
people go green with Envy!!!!!!


2122 RAZER REVIVAL (DEMO)
Another brilliant demo, the good thing is more and more are now
working on the Amiga + and A600 machines.


2124 PIECE OF MIND (DEMO)
Another superb demo from NIKKI CORRUPTION.


2125 REFLEX (DEMO)
Sound and vision from Reflex is amazing!


2126 MONEY PROGRAM (UTILITY)
A superb homegrown program which is for home money
management. A great utility that really should be in your collection.


2129 TEXT ENGINE 3.4 (MEGA UTILITY)
The best ever PD word processor just got better, totally re programmed
to take advantage of the new Workbench 2 machines (+ AND A600).  I
won't rant on and on all I have to say is this is the best PD program
ever written.


2130 AIRPORT (GAME)
What an absolutely mega ultra PD game.  Become an air traffic
controller in this brill piece of PD. BUN FACTOR 10.


2131 SICKNESS SIMULATOR (WEIRD)
Every belch fart and vulgar noise you can think of on 1 disk. We loved
it but then we would.


2132A SEA FISH (SLIDESHOW)
A great 2 disk slideshow of all the weird and wonderful fish in our
great ocean's around the world.


2132B SEA FISH (SLIDESHOW)
A great 2 disk slideshow of all the weird and wonderful fish in our
great ocean's around the world.


2133 FARTS AND BELCHES COLLECTION
Very similar to the other disk in the library very funny.


2134A GRAPEVINE 11
Brilliant disk mag.  If you havn't seen one before just take my advise
and order one today. The best thing since sliced bread !!!!!!!!!


2134B GRAPEVINE 11
Brilliant disk mag.  If you havn't seen one before just take my advise
and order one today. The best thing since sliced bread !!!!!!!!!


2135 SLIDESHOW MAKER (A500+/A600 ONLY!)
One of the best slideshow makers to hit the PD scene, you do need 2
drives but the program doesn't need any script file or CLI knowledge
what so ever. Just bung in the disks and watch this great program do
all the hard work.


2136 MASH THE POTATO HEAD (GAME)
A very good arcade game based on an old 8-Bit classic.


2137A DISKNET RYTENNA RYTETTA (MUSIC DISK)
A superb 2 disk music set with four built in PD games to occupy the
mind as well.


2137B DISKNET RYTENNA RYTETTA (MUSIC DISK)
A superb 2 disk music set with four built in PD games to occupy the
mind as well.


2139 ROULETTE (GAME)
Calibre brings you PD roulette, you must know the game.  A very good
version that should be on your PD order list.


2140 WIT UTILS V1.0 (UTILITY)
Utility comps come and go, they often repeat themselves and this one
is no exception.  But this one does contain some of the very best
utilities ever written for the trusty entertainment box, with FixDisk,
Diskmaster, Newzap, and VirusChecker to name a few. A disk that should
be put with 785 and 1369 in your collection.


2141 OTHELLO (GAME)
From Tower Software comes yet another version of Othello, very
playable but that much different from all the others I have seen.


2145 * WITHDRAWN *
This title is NOT PD and has been withdrawn from the 17Bit library.


2147 VERB QUIZ (GAME)
A very different kind of quiz in which you have to come up with past
tense adjectives for different words and meanings.


2149 WORD SORT (UTILITY)
A great program for solving anagrams and such like.


2152A STATION AT KHERN (3 MEG ANIM)
Brilliant 3 disk SC-FI animation, a must for all anim fans everywhere.


2152B STATION AT KHERN (3 MEG ANIM)
Brilliant 3 disk SC-FI animation, a must for all anim fans everywhere.


2152C STATION AT KHERN (3 MEG ANIM)
Brilliant 3 disk SC-FI animation, a must for all anim fans everywhere.


2153 ANARCHY DEJA-VU (DEMO)
Anarchy are back with another stunning demo, all the usual programming
skills are here, one for all the demo collectors.


2154 ADDRESS PRINT V2.1 (UTILITY)
A fine data base and address printer from Paul Lathwell, just the job
for those mini mail shots.


2155 CYCLIST (ANIM)
1 meg animation of the olympic gold medal winner, nothing special but
not bad.


2156 TOP SECRET (GAME)
Basically a nice Parasol Stars ripoff, great gameplay, lots of levels.


2157A HEATBEAT MUSIC (1/2)
A Great music disk


2157B HEATBEAT MUSIC (2/2)
A Great music disk


2158A FANATIX (GAME)
A game with very naff graphics but a certain charm brings you back for
more.  Coded by Zalycon, It's a shoot em up of mega PD proportions It
certainly is worth a few hours of your time.


2158B FANATIX (GAME)
A game with very naff graphics but a certain charm brings you back for
more.  Coded by Zalycon, It's a shoot em up of mega PD proportions It
certainly is worth a few hours of your time.


2160 QUARTZ DYNAMIC ILLUSION (DEMO)
Fresh from their very own party comes this exceptional piece of code a
great demo, If you know what one is add it to your collection.


2161 SILENTS MAXIMUM VELOCITY (DEMO)
Silents are back with yet another demo, very nice, very polished, and
in my demo collection already.


2162 CYBERNETIX (GAME)
Don't be put off by the title, what we have here is one of the best
ever Defender clone's to grace the Amiga.  Smashing, lovely, super.


2163 GAMES GALORE 12 (GAME)
Gary Henderson is back with more of the best PD games from around the
world, titles include,  Revolution, Dominoes, Othello, Parachute, and
many more.


2164A LSD TOTAL CHAOS
Total Chaos from the guys from Leeds


2164B LSD TOTAL CHAOS
Total Chaos from the guys from Leeds


2165 SUSPECT IMMORTAL VISIONS (DEMO)
Yet another great demo, remember if it's not good we don't include it
in the library.  Every demo featured is of the highest quality, some
people find them boring, some people love em. I'm of the love-em
variety. Enjoy the show from Suspect.


2166 CRACK INC BBS INTRO (DEMO)
A BBS intro is something that usually is very small and nothing
special, but this CRACK INC is very large and very good.


2168 GENOCIDE AURAL ILLUSION (MUSIC)
A fantastic music disk with a great front end.  Pump up the volume and
chill ill and freak, mega.


2169 APOCALYPSE (DEMO)
From Gods comes a great new demo, load it and love it.


2170 AABSOLUTE VECTOR (DEMO)
One of the best ever vector demo's anywhere on the Amiga, a must for
anyone into the old Square root, pie chart, maths type coding stigma,
don't I talk a load of old Bo****ks.


2171 ASSASSINS PD GAMES VOL 30 (GAMES)
Chrome, Tank Attack, Total Fire, Bounce + Blast to name but a few.


2172 DOLPHIN DREAM (ANIM)
A nice little animation by Craig Collins, there's also a nice
slideshow on the disk as well.


2174 KLAKTRIS (GAME)
Call It Columns, call it Tetris, but don't call it crap.  This is one
hell of a game, coded by Tony Hosier and destined to become a PD
Classic. (Bun Factor (111111111112222222222222222233333333333333333)


2175 PLUS ISSUE 14 (UTILITY)
You should know by now what this is, number 14 in the WB2 only series,
you can be sure all these babies work on A500+ and A600 machines,
Includes Drawmap, Lacepointer, and of course many more.


2176 CROSSMAZE+CRYPTOKING (GAME)
One for all you thinkers out there, 2 major PD puzzlers from 17-BIT.


2178 INSTRUMENTS (MUSIC)
Over 80 Samples and Instruments for use with MED and Protracker,
compiled and sent in by E A Kooy of the Netherlands.


2179A PSYCHIE (MUSIC)
Another 2 disk music extravaganza, great tunes with superb visuals.


2179B PSYCHIE (MUSIC)
Another 2 disk music extravaganza, great tunes with superb visuals.


2180 PALACE JIGGLE IT (MUSIC)
A disk that doesn't work on A600 machines i'm afraid, nice music from
palace.


2182A FINAL FRONTIER ISSUE 3 (DISK MAG)
A stunning 4 disk issue of the mag, lots of original music and
graphics. Great articles, a lot of stuff on these disks is written
especially for the mag itself, a tour de force for Star Trek fans.


2182B FINAL FRONTIER ISSUE 3 (DISK MAG)
A stunning 4 disk issue of the mag, lots of original music and
graphics. Great articles, a lot of stuff on these disks is written
especially for the mag itself, a tour de force for Star Trek fans.


2182C FINAL FRONTIER ISSUE 3 (DISK MAG)
A stunning 4 disk issue of the mag, lots of original music and
graphics. Great articles, a lot of stuff on these disks is written
especially for the mag itself, a tour de force for Star Trek fans.


2182D FINAL FRONTIER ISSUE 3 (DISK MAG)
A stunning 4 disk issue of the mag, lots of original music and
graphics. Great articles, a lot of stuff on these disks is written
especially for the mag itself, a tour de force for Star Trek fans.


2183 CYCLIC (ART)
A nice disk this, lots of hey man that's weird pictures accompanied by
great music.  Colour cycle pictures a go go.


2184 SPECTRUM AND MATRIX (GAME)
2 great PD games from M Sheeky, both shoot em up's.


2185 SILVERBLADE (GAME)
Part of the Netherlands invasion, sent in by Dirk Dolle because he
never saw any good shoot em up's from his country in PD, nothing
stunning but playable.


2186A STOLEN DATA (DISK MAG)
Another grapevine clone, if you want to know what's happening on the
scene then look no further.  Packed with Amiga news and articles.


2186B STOLEN DATA (DISK MAG)
Another grapevine clone, if you want to know what's happening on the
scene then look no further.  Packed with Amiga news and articles.


2187 STARCAT 2 (UTILITY)
Ever wanted your own cat disk for say PD or CD's, Video ETC, then look
no further, all the hard work just disappears with StarCat 2, make
your own disk catalogue in no time with this great piece of PD.


2188 E-TYPE 2 (GAME)
The follow up to E-Type, better's the first one very easily, don't be
misled by the title though, it is after all just another Asteroids
Clone, and a good one at that.


2190 SCORPIOUS MAPPER (UTILITY)
An upgrade of the earlier Scorpious Mapper, this one is version 2.


2191 PINBALL DREAMS II PREVIEW (GAME)
Play the first level of the long awaited sequel to Pinball Dreams,
Coded by Silents the legendary Amiga crew, more flippers more sound
effects, and more playability.


2193 PHEONIX SOLUTIONS 2 (UTILITY)
More great game cheats from Pheonix, well over 80 games solved,
including HOOK, MONKEY ISLAND 2, and  THE ADDAMS FAMILY, plus many
more.


2194 MC MATRIX (MUSIC)
Pump it up Chris, I'm about to ???????  more techno crap, if you like
it this is very good.


2197 ACT OF WAR (GAME)
Great thinking mans action game from Dave Smith, a touch of Dungeon
master, with a hint of Rebel Star Raiders make this a dead cert on the
PD gaming front.


2200 TURBO THRUST (GAME 2 PLAYER ONLY)
A bit like the bonus level of Project X but this time you race against
a friend to reach the end first.


2202 CLUMPY ICONS (UTILITY)
Lots of Icons for you to nick and use with your own WB.


2203 ADVENTURE CREATOR (UTILITY)
Great little utility for making your own graphic adventures.


2204 FRACTIONS AND SILHOUETTES (EDUCATION)
Nice educational programs involving additions, multiplication and
subtraction of fractions, perhaps a little too advanced for pre GCSE.


2205 FREESTYLE PERFECT 5 (MUSIC)
Well nice music disk with a neat intro and nice music selection menu.
The musics are of very high quality and make a change from those awful
techno sounding tracks.


2206 CED (UTILITY)
If you program in C and need a specialist code editor, look no
further...


2207 ESCAPE FROM A VERY LARGE CAVE (GAME)
This offering from Zen software could best be described as Monkey
Island on a budget.


2208 CONSTELLATION (MISC)
Another disk in the ever popular astronomy scene, this one details
constellations and gives information and co-ordinates for each of the
stars that make the constellations up.  This is only a demo version
however, the only constellation you can examine is ORION.


2209A OLEMPIAD (GAME)
Daley Thompsons Decathlon with Lemmings of all things.  Events include
200M, Javelin, Long Jump, Skateboarding and more!!


2209B OLEMPIAD (GAME)
Daley Thompsons Decathlon with Lemmings of all things.  Events include
200M, Javelin, Long Jump, Skateboarding and more!!


2211 BONDS LAST STAND (ANIM)
This spoof anim of the now legendary bond intro incorporates a subtle
change... Bond, after shooting at the `viewer` from down the barrel
of a gun ends up getting shot to bits himself...


2212 ROSEBUD TOO FUNKY (DEMO)
Nice demo with all the usual stuff including bobs n sprites n things.


2214 FIREHAWKS (MUSIC)
Another nice compilation of tunes to annoint your ears.


2215 MIRAGE/FORGOTTON SLIDES (SLIDESHOW)
This disk is utterly fantastic, it contains loads of very very nice hi
res and drawn pictures of the gothic/fantasy art genre.  Miss this one
at your peril!


2217A SPEEDLIMIT 3MEG (ANIM)
If you have enough memory for this, get it.  The anim is of a
futureistic high speed motorbike chase through a city with perilous
results!


2217B SPEEDLIMIT 3MEG (ANIM)
If you have enough memory for this, get it.  The anim is of a
futureistic high speed motorbike chase through a city with perilous
results!


2217C SPEEDLIMIT 3MEG (ANIM)
If you have enough memory for this, get it.  The anim is of a
futureistic high speed motorbike chase through a city with perilous
results!


2218 OBLIDOX (GAME)
Another puzzle game, this time the aim of the game is to shift all the
couloured blocks into their respective bases whils avoiding time
stealing aliens.


2220 SHINING 8 (SLIDESHOW)
Another fantastic slideshow, this time by shining 8.  Features some
very nice metal effect surfaces.


2221 SKY FLYER (GAME)
A very nice little S.E.U.C.K shoot em up!


2222 LIQUID REFLEX (DEMO)
A nice demo from reflex, nothing new but well worth a look at anyway.


2224 UTILS COMP (UTILITY)
Plenty of utils from LSD to keep your tools up to date. Includes
stuff like copiers, archivers and copper list editors.


2225 ALL ROUNDER CRICKET (GAME)
Another good attempt at bringing Cricket to PD.  Written in amos, this
one is definatly worth a look at.


2226 PICTURES AND LETTERS (EDUCATIONAL)
One for the kids, select a letter and the computer displays a nice
picture accompanied by some cheerful music.


2227A GRAPEVINE 12 (DISK MAG)
Catch up on the latest in the Amiga PD Scene.  As usuall, packed to
exploding with loads of articles for you to read.


2227B GRAPEVINE 12 (DISK MAG)
Catch up on the latest in the Amiga PD Scene.  As usuall, packed to
exploding with loads of articles for you to read.


2227C GRAPEVINE 12 (DISK MAG)
Catch up on the latest in the Amiga PD Scene.  As usuall, packed to
exploding with loads of articles for you to read.


2228 ROTON (GAME)
Very nice games for asteroid fans.  Collect powerups and Kick A**.


2229 TECHNO TRANCE (MUSIC)
Can you handle 12 mins of solid techno, if you can you should be able
to handle this disk.


2230 ABSOLUTE MUSICATION VOL 1 (MUSIC)
Another music compilation, well presented with a menu to select each
track.


2231 DIGITAL COMPLEXITY (DEMO)
Yet another nice demo for your collection.


2232 GAMES GALORE VOL 13 (GAMES)
Mr Henderson strikes back with a games comp including Mr Wobbly,
Donkey Kong, Little Boulder and a few others


2233 DYNAMIC HI RES SLIDES (SLIDESHOW)
Loads of excellent DHR pics for you to ogle. Full screen, full colour
and in full effect.


2234A BENCHMASTER (UTILITY)
A direct replacement workbench for 1.3 owners which includes just
about every tool you will need including a file transfer utility.


2234B BENCHMASTER (UTILITY)
A direct replacement workbench for 1.3 owners which includes just
about every tool you will need including a file transfer utility.


2235 CURSOR BASIC COMPILER (UTILITY)
Compiles Basic programs, what more can i say??


2237 LYAPUNOV GENERATOR (MISC)
If you are bored of plain old fractals, get this and generate some
unique space age scenery.


2238A NUTCRACKER SUITE (MUSIC)
Hugh Gammon turns his had to the old masters yet again and produces a
faithfull rendition of the Nutcraker Suite.


2238B NUTCRACKER SUITE (MUSIC)
Hugh Gammon turns his had to the old masters yet again and produces a
faithfull rendition of the Nutcraker Suite.


2241 RAVE ATTACK 2 (MUSIC)
The sequel to rave attack, this time bigger, better and LOUDER!


2242 CAT SLIDESHOW (SLIDESHOW)
A disk full of excellent quality close up shots of your favorite
pussys. Tabbies, Manx and common moggies are all featured.


2244 GET FROGGED (ANIM)
Trendy anim of a frog performing to a somewhat bewildered postman.


2245 MIND GAMES (GAMES)
An excellent collction of games to tease that old grey matter.....


2246 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS (FONTS)
A collection of fonts for WB2.0 users.


2247 LEGEND OF LOTHIAN (RPG GAME)
An amazing RPG graphic adventure which I have played intensely.  RPG
fans get this now or if you have never played an RPG, get it anyway as
it is an excellent place to start.


2248 AMIGA BEGINNERS GUIDE (MISC)
Get to know your way around the Amiga with this guide which explains
all the more common problems new users tend to have.


2249 FOOTBALL LEAGUE EDITOR (UTIL)
Not liking football myself, I get bored easily by disks of this type
but for any true footy fans im sure this disk will have the opposite
effect.


2251 DCOPY III (UTILITY)
The latest version of DCOPY for all you loyal users.


2252 DESCENDER (GAME)
A wierd reaction, skill, puzzle strategy game which is ever so
dificult to describe!!


2254 LSD UTILS 26 (UTILS)
Includes hard disk menus, font converters, archivers and loads more.


2255 LSD UTILS 27 (UTILS)
More utils including PCTASK, screenblank, text adder and loads more.


2257 JAM ANIMATION (ANIM)
A simple anim which demostrates what can be acheived with Dpaint.


2258 RAINBOW GEN PRO (UTILITY)
Generate rainbow backgrounds and coppers with ease.


2259 SLAUGHTER HOUSE CHEATS (MISC)
For anyone who is currently stuck on a game, this disk lists cheats
for all the latest and greatest releases.


2260 QMJ (UTILITY)
Another mandelbrot and julia set generator to add to your already
massive collection.


2261 MAGNUM 1.4 (UTILITY)
An update to the popular disk mag creator with new features and bug
fixes where relevant.


2262 WORLD WAR 2 HYPERBOOK (EDUCATIONAL)
If you want to know all the facts about WWII, this hyperbook will
present them to you quite nicely.


2264 GAMES COMP (GAMES)
Includes solitaire, sub attack, IFS Gen and others.


2265 CASHFRUIT (GAME)
A nice little fruit machine simulator for all you arcade addicts.


2267 SATANIC RIGHTS ISSUE 2
You want a good disk mag, then you shall have a good disk mag (sounds
like Cinderella doesnt it!!) Packed with lots of Satanic things to
read about and other things as well. Even Amiga Format liked it. What
more can I say?


2268A LSD TECHNO DEMO (2 DRIVES)
Get yer hair cut short, get down the chemist for a bottle of vicks,
stand in your bedroom and get your mate to play with the dimmer
switch, put this in your amiga and Bobs yer Gran. Your own Rave.
45 mins of chillin (?) rave music from LSD. Brilliant!!!


2268B LSD TECHNO DEMO (2 DRIVES)
Get yer hair cut short, get down the chemist for a bottle of vicks,
stand in your bedroom and get your mate to play with the dimmer
switch, put this in your amiga and Bobs yer Gran. Your own Rave.
45 mins of chillin (?) rave music from LSD. Brilliant!!!


2269 ANARCHY DEMO
Top notch effort as you would expect from this group. Loads of
brilliant effects and routines. Get it before it gets you. Winner of
a recent demo party in England.


2270 ASSASINS GAMES DISK 34
Trailblazer, Yelp, Qbic, Rush Hour. 4 Top class pd games, once again
from the masters of games compilations.


2272 SANITY GAME,SLIDESHOW AND MUSIC.
A bit of everything on here really. A good one for all you new amiga
owners to get just to get the feel of what the machine can do.


2273 TOP OF THE LEAGUE (SOCCER MANAGEMENT GAME)
PD has been crying out for game of this genre for a long time now and
at last, we have one. A cracking game here. Pick yer team, pick yer
men, count the cash and play wth your balls. Go on buy it today.


2274 SILENTS DEMO
Don't blame me cause I didnt put this one in the library. It's not bad
but there are no new routines and it gets a bit boring.


2276 ATOMS STRATEGY GAME
A strategy game.


2277 WHOM 3 (STAR TREK INFO)
Following on the usual high standards of Whom 1+2 this contains
everything you need to know about Star Trek and a bit more besides.


2280 PARASITE `IMPERIAL TUNES` MUSIC
Some very nice tunes on here which sound good when you are laid on yer
bed in the dark thinking. Very melodic but very nice.


2282 CLUB MIX 3
Another big long dancey housey type from the master of them all Mike
Archer.If you like techno then you will love this.


2283 RAVE ATTACK 3 (NOT PLUS)
As I said on the previous one if you like dance music, you'll like
this. Not my cup of tea. Go out and buy a Genesis album instead.
(Hmmm Genesis = Old Farts Music according to Ray Cokes, MTV)


2284 EIGHT SLEMZ OUT
Nice lemmings anim with all the little blighters having a game of
baseball and not doing it too well either. Good for a laugh.


2285 RAGING HORMONE ANIMATION
If the guy who wrote this can keep this kind of quality going then he
is destined to be a big name. A short but brilliant anim of a Romeo
Hormone on the loose.


2290 ACCOUNT MASTER
If you are a real tight fisted git who loves saving their money but
never knows how much you've got (Bit like the Queen really!!) then you
can use this amazingly well written accounts package to add it all
up.Luverly.


2291 JIM NAST ANIMATIONS
Several short but sweet anims about the day in the life of a guy
called Jim Nast. Reasonable.


2292 WOMAN
If you have tried reading the workbench manual which comes with the
machine then you will realise it tells you nothing. This little beauty
gives you the exact instructions for all the CLI commands e.g DIR,
COPY, INFO etc.


2293 GIF SLIDESHOW
Superb quality digitised ham pictures of sports cars and motorbikes.


2295 XMAS ANIM
Very appropriate at this time of the year.A wonderfully animated
sequence of Santas Grotty. There are lots of different little things
going on to spot.


2297 GIF SLIDESHOW 2
Yet again superb HAM pics covering everything from money to scenery.


2299 TEARAWAY THOMAS PLAYABLE DEMO
Playable game demo.


2300 MATCHSTICK MAN
This a clone of the old classic Hunchback. If you can get past level
5, you are a bloody lucky person! Nice


2301 HOBBITS AND SPACESHIPS SUPPORT DISK
This is a disk full of tunes and information written by Bjorn
Lynne. Author of the now famous AMFM disk magazine. It advertises his
new Compact Disc H + S (Available from 17 Bit 12.99) and also the
Space Wars video (11.99)


2303 DEANS CRUNCHERS (UTIL)
From the single filing king from Royston comes this disk packed full
of loads and loads of packers and crunchers used by the man himself.
Comes with documentation files where available.


2304 PENDLE EUROPAS KAOS THEORY (DEMO)
Techno Techno Techno Techno.
 
 
<Saddo Saddo Saddo Saddo?>


2306 ASSASINS CRUNCHERS AND COPIERS (UTIL)
Copiers and crunchers. From Assassins.


2307 ASSASINS GFX UTILS
Take one graphics utility. Add another. Repeat until disk full.
 
 
<Assasins Algorithm for Disk Compilation>


2308 ASSASINS BOOT UTILS
Wanna stop a virus?  Wanna write a silly bootup message to your
mates? This is the disk for you.  Very easy to use, just install it
on the boot block. Loads to choose from.


2309 ASSASINS HANDY TOOLS 1
General mixture of utilities. Something for everyone to choose from.


2310 ASSASINS HANDY TOOLS 2
See 2309 for details


2311 ASSASINS HANDY TOOLS 3
See 2309 for details


2312 PRIZE FIGHT DEMO (GAME)
A brilliant playable demo of a martial arts game.  Superb in every
aspect. Computer opponent puts up a strong fight, with well drawn
sprites and nice tunes as well.  Excellent in every way.


2313 CHEATS 
Crap at games? Loads of cheats on 'ere.


2314 ALVIN AEROSOL ANIM
Another anim from the guy who did Raging Hormone. Brilliant cartoon
style effects with a story about an aerosol can who gets bothered by
a fly.


2315A ELENIUM DEVIOUS (MUSIC)
Very good 2 disk music comp with a 'Megademo' style to it. Some
excellent toons on here!!


2315B ELENIUM DEVIOUS (MUSIC)
Part 2 of ELENIUM DEVIOUS


2316 KASTLE KUMQUAT (GAME)
Nice overhead view run around & kill game. Very 'Alien Breed' on a
very low budget!


2317 OUTERIM (GAME) + ONLY
Nice mixture of Millenium 2.2 and Return To Earth. This demo version
plays for 20 mins.  Good, but the 15 pound registration fee could be
a tad too high?


2318 GRAPHICS GRINDER (UTIL)
Another graphics file conversion utility which supports IFF, TIF, PCX,
JPEG HAM-E and loads of others.


2320 FREEDOM CRACK 10 (MAG)
Another disk mag...  Short and not up to the standards of Grapevine
but nice all the same.


2321 FIGHTING WARRIORS (GAME)
Remember Way of The Exploding Fist on the C64? Well, here's a version
written in Amos and... it's very good! The sprites are large
allthough they do appear to be based upon StreetFighter 2 images!
Very good fast beat-em-up with loads of moves, &tc.


2322 AMIGA SOUND ENHANCER BOARD PROJECT (UTIL)
Want to build your own sound enhancer and save some cash??  Get this
disk and follow the step by step instructions.


2323 PCQ SHELL (UTIL)
If you are thinking about learning Pascal, here is an ideal starting
place.  PCQ will save you stacks of cash not having to shell out for a
Pascal compiler!!


2324 TEXTURES (FONTS & CLIPART)
Nice disk full of excellent textures and backdrops for you to
use in your own creations.


2325A IRON CLADS (GAME)
This game of Naval Surface Combat is probably the first PD game of its
type. Very basic indeed but could be fun with 2 players!


2325B IRON CLADS (GAME)
Part 2 of IRON CLADS


2326 INTREPID (GAME)
Excellent PD game with neat graphics and sound. Your mission is to
rescue a <very pretty> scientist from the clutches of the evil
Antarctic terrorists.  Use your trusty INTREPID (tm) craft to kill
their proverbials!


2327A THE AD!
A very very nice anim of the power of advertising IN SPACE! Very
funny, IF you've got ** 3 MEGS ** of memory and 2 drives.


2327B THE AD!
Part 2 of THE AD!


2327C THE AD!
Part 3 of THE AD!


2328 ELEVATION (GAME)
A nice platform game in which you have to try and avoid the nasty,
evil and cunning elevators!!??!!


2330 SLIDESHOW CONSTRUCTION KIT
Create your own galley tour on disk.


2331A GRAPEVINE 13 (MAG)
Its here!  Grapevine 13! As usual, packed with loads of naughty and
controvercial snippets and stuff. Miss this at your peril!


2331B GRAPEVINE 13 (MAG)
Part 2 of GRAPEVINE 13


2331C GRAPEVINE 13 (MAG)
Part 3 of GRAPEVINE 13


2332 ESCAPADE (GAME)
A rather nice 'Breakout' clone.


2333A THUNDERBIRDS ARE GONE
Hugh Grove presents his latest spoof anim, this time of the
Thunderbirds!!
 
** Requires 2 MEGS of RAM **


2333B THUNDERBIRDS ARE GONE
Part 2 of THUNDERBIRDS ARE GONE


2334 GRAND PRIX MANAGER (GAME)
Nice G.P managerial game for the people who actually like a bit of a
strategy element!!


2337 BATMAN (SLIDESHOW)
Pics taken from the animated series of Batman. Good quality.


2339A THE JOURNEY (ANIM)
As the name suggests, let Brazzle Atkins take you on a superb journey
through a fractal land.  Dont miss this one if fractal mountains
are your forte!


2339B THE JOURNEY (ANIM)
Part 2 of THE JOURNEY


2340 THE BOAT (ANIM)
Simple but effective anim showing what can be achieved with DPaint.


2341A XBENCH (UTIL)
Another direct replacement for your workbench disk. Includes various
non-standard utils for system management.


2341B XBENCH (UTIL)
Part 2 of XBENCH


2343 VANISH WORLD OF COMMODORE (DEMO)
EXCELLENT!  Released at the W.O.C, this demo really is of a high
standard. Unpack it now!


2344 SANITY WORLD OF COMMODORE (DEMO)
Another excellent release from W.O.C, this production was in the
'scene charts for ages...


2345 NS #1 (UTILS)
Utilities compilation including Amitool Pro and Picsee among others.


2346A CULT TV DATABASE II
Wads of info on all the best cult progs such as Prisoner, The Saints,
Thunderbirds, The Persuaders and loads more!!!


2346B CULT TV DATABASE II
Part 2 of CULT TV DATABASE II


2347 FURMYRE SHOOTEMUP (GAME)
Nice little SEUCK game with shades of a vertical scolling Project X!


2348 HYPERDRIVE (UTIL)
Fools the computer into thinking you have a very fast 880K drive in
memory!
 
** Requires 1.5 MEG of RAM **


2349 HYPERDIVE (UTIL)
As disk 2348 but only a 330K drive available.
 
** Requires 1 MEG of RAM **


2351 METROPOLIS DEMO (GAME)
Probably the closest thing to a PD Sim City there is.


2352 SKYBOARDS MUSIC COLLECTION
Pump up the volume and let this awesome techno techno disk melt your
brain.


2353 DELUXE PAC MAN (GAME)
Die-hard PacMan fans are in for a real treat with this one! Souped up
game, sound, graphics & gameplay can't be bad!


2354 T.A.C.K (UTIL)
Create your own anims with The Animation Construction Kit.


2355 QUIZ CHALLENGE (GAME)
Throw Trivial Persuit in the bin and go for gold with Quiz Challenge.
You can even add your own questions!


2356 LCD DREAMS (GAMES)
Nostalgia Alert!!!  Remember all thos nasty LCD hand held games you
used to play 'when you were a lad'?  Well now you can play 'em all
over again. 4 of the best have been included on this disk!


2357 QUIZMASTER (GAME)
Yet another quiz game to stretch the old grey matter. This one even
lets you design your own quizzes!


2358 MLP`s TECHNO RAVE (MODULES)
Techno. Techno. Techno. Again. Loads of it in module format so you can
load 'em in through your favourite audiotracker, if you must.


2359 MLP MODULES (MODULES)
Another disk from MLP, should you find Techno irritating.


2360 MEGACHEAT V3.0 (MISC)
Stuck on a game?  Help is at hand with MegaCheats..  Tips are included
for Gamegear, Megadrive, Amiga, PC Engine and loads of other formats.


2362 TECHNO REACT 2 (MUSIC)
Here we go again....


2363 PYROGENIC SHORT MODULES (MODULES)
A disk full of good quality modules presented thru a menu selection
system.


2364 OBLIVION (GAME)
Excellent version of Williams' DEFENDER. Highly Recommended.


2366 ADVENTURE GAMES CREATOR (UTIL)
Create your own adventures with the help of this program. Includes all
documentation. Written in AMOS.


2367 SLEEPLESS NIGHTS 3 (1200 ONLY)
Description to follow shortly.....


2368 OWLMAN (ANIM)
Funny anim of Owlman demonstrating his super human abilities!


2369A ZIPBENCH (UTIL)
Another in the growing series of WB replacement disks. This one
includes DCOPY, ICONMASTER and POWERPACKER amongst other tools,
all on easy accessed pull down menus.


2369B ZIPBENCH (UTIL)
Part 2 of ZIPBENCH


2371 SPACEBALLS - STATE OF THE ART (DEMO)
State Of The Art is the production that took The Party 2 <Aars,
Denmark, '92> by storm with its design, effects and overall
originality. Also holds the record as the first demo ever that
needed cracking <Skid Row> before it was reasonably compatible on
most machines.


2372 SAVINGS CERTIFICATE ADVERT ANIMATION
Anybody who has seen the NSS advert by Gary Larson will instantly
recognise this superbly drawn animation which recreates the ad exactly
with a slightly humourous twist at the end.


2373 WORLD GEOGRAPHY
If your kids couldn't tell the difference between Paris and Poland
then this is disk for them.  A superbly well put together education
geography tool which will appeal to even the youngest David
Attenborough. Nicely drawn and lots of information to read.  Highly
recommended.


2374 PASSWORD PARADISE
God this guy must be MAD. This disk contains just about every single
level password for every game ever released.  The author even typed in
all the Populous and Powermonger codes.  Now that's commitment. Or
gullibility.


2376 CROSSOVER (GAME)
 


2377 THE DART MACHINE (UTIL)
Can't keep track of the scores in your games of darts? Use this
utility instead. <There's also a sliding block puzzle on 'ere>


2378 WORKBENCH 3 SCREENS (A1200 + 4000 ONLY)
Does your workbench look crap? On 'ere we've about 20 different
backgrounds and textures which you can load in and make it look
nicer.


2379A FAIRLIGHT DEMO (2 DISKS)
Featured in Amiga Format MAY 93 and given an absolutely corker of a
review.  Easily one of the best demos of all time.  Lots of new
routines to look at.  Not A500+ compatible, unfortunately.


2379B FAIRLIGHT DEMO (2 DISKS)
Part 2 of FAIRLIGHT DEMO


2380A ANARCHY LEGALISE IT 2 (MUSIC)
Another classic Anarchy production - a music <2> disk from the
classic Anarchy era. As opposed to Li1, Nuke's music went with
a jazz influence with coding from Dan and graphics from Facet.
Hidden tunes available if you can find 'em.


2380B ANARCHY LEGALISE IT 2 (MUSIC)
Part 2 of LEGALIZE IT 2


2382 WIZARD WARS
Demo version of Wizard Wars. A Risk clone played across hexagons using
wizards, warriors, and all the usual D&D kack.


2383 AMIMORIA V5.4 (GAME)
The latest version of this popular text adventure game.


2384 JUKE BOX
Music disk written in AMOS with some very nice strobe effects.


2385 MUSIC LABORATORY (UTILS)
Need music utilities? Unpack this disk. <Original catalogue text
removed due to bad joke from 17-bit>


2386 THE OLD TOOLSHED (UTILS)
Loads of old tools but not many sheds. <See what I mean?>


2387 WHOM 3 PART 2
See 2388


2388 WHOM 3 PART 3
NB These two disks will run individually and do NOT need part 1 to
run.  They cover information on all the old classic TV programmes
such as Dr Who, Blakes 7, The Prisoner.  If you are a cult TV fan,
then these are the disks for you. If not, they're not. End of plug,
read on.


2389 GIF SLIDES 3
Very high quality HAM pictures of aircraft, 'and other stuff'.
 
 
<Rock and snore>


2390 KI VOICE LIBRARY EDITOR
If youve got a Kawai K1 keyboard then <A> you're a smug git 
and <B> you'll probably need this easy to use, very useful voice
library editor.


2391 ACK ACK (GAME)
A good shoot-em-up game written in AMOS.  Will keep the kids amused
for quite a while I should imagine.
 
 
<17-Bit as enthusiastic as ever. 'Buy this disk. Or not'>


2392 KIDS PAINT BOX
Demo version only of what appears to be a very interesting paint
package.  There are only a couple of pictures you can colour in but if
you send off the registration fee then you get the full version.


2393A STAR TREK THEMES
Trekkies ahoy! Check out this 2 disk set of themes covering 'the era
of Wiggy' right up to TNG. Good quality samples.


2393B STAR TREK THEMES
Part 2 of STAR TREK THEMES


2394 COMIC ART 2
If you are into Marvel and DC Comics <'Like I used to be!!' according
to the catalogue. Oh dear> then these superbly high quality pictures
of all your favourite superheroes will be just the thing for you, if
you like men who wear their pants outside their tights.


2395 NASP V3
'Nobodys got a clue what this is but weve sold quite a few.  PLEASE
let us know what it is.'
 
 
<And 17-Bit go into Power Marketing mode again>


2396 PROTRACKER V2.3B
Latest version of this popular music making program.


2397 DIGITAL DEMO
Another brilliant demo with some superb effects, this time by DIGITAL.


2398A ANDROMEDA DEMO
Not a demo as such, but a nice 2 disk music set with a brilliant
mirror intro.  Something for everybody on here.


2398B ANDROMEDA DEMO
Part 2 of ANDROMEDA DEMO


2399A ADDICTS TECHNO (DEMO)
Techno Techno Techno. <Rock and snore>


2399B ADDICTS TECHNO (DEMO)
Part 2 of ADDICTS TECHNO


2400 ANARCHY DEMO
'Another brilliant demo with some superb effects, this time by
ANARCHY.'
 
 
<So now you know>


2401A PMC ALPHA & OMEGA 2 (DEMO)
Remember disk 1206? Well this is the belated follow up to it, which is
just a tad overdue.  Brings new meaning to Vector Worlds.


2401B PMC ALPHA & OMEGA 2
Part 2 of ALPHA & OMEGA 2


2401C PMC ALPHA & OMEGA 2
Part 3 of ALPHA & OMEGA 2


2402 FONTS 
DPAINT FONTS.


2403 FONTS 
DPAINT FONTS


2404 HARLEQUIN FONTS & TEXTURES.
Lots of textures, fonts and backdrops for you to use with DPAINT and
SCALA. <And if you're sick of mind, Protracker>


2405 HARLEQUIN FONTS & TEXTURES.
SEE 2404


2406 OCTAMED SAMPLES
Around 60 Octamed samples on this cracking octamed samples
compilation.


2407 SLIDEMANIA 1
A good collection of 21 High Quality pictures with a nice 'toon to
fall asleep to.


2408 DEMO MAKER UTILS
Utilities to make your own demos.


2409A ROB BAXTERS DESKTOP MUSIC GUIDE
If you can't tell the difference between a Middle C and 2 Unlimited, 
unpack this. Teaches you all about music, the ins and outs of notation
and also a history of music. Yet another classic from RB himself.


2409B ROB BAXTERS DESKTOP MUSIC GUIDE
Part 2 of ROB BAXTERS DESKTOP MUSIC GUIDE


2409C ROB BAXTERS DESKTOP MUSIC GUIDE
Part 3 of ROB BAXTERS DESKTOP MUSIC GUIDE


2410 DAFFY LOSES HIS HEAD
A rather nice silly animation about Daffy Duck who just can't keep his
head.
 
 
<You're supposed to keep up the payments...>


2411 BHANGRA MUSIC
If you are into the 'oriental' stuff <'And fancy a good dance about
like a big spaz', according to the text 'ere> then check this out.


2412 RAGING HORMONE 2
Follow up to the highly popular exploits of the raging hormone. If
you've got the first one then (A) you will know what it's like and (B)
you'll know its not + compatible


2413 THE TRAMPOLINE
A very high quality anim from none other then Hugh Grove. Yep, the man
who did 'Roadhog' and 'Thunderbirds Are Gone' is back and with a
vengeance.


2414 EXTREME VIOLENCE GAME
'My god what a corker this is. We even had a knockout tournament in
the office 'coz it's that good. A split screen 2 player game where
you've just got to shoot yer opponent before he shoots you.
ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC.'
 
 
<Believe it or nuts>


2415 PAY ADVICE ANALYZER (UTIL)
Works out tax and National Insurance deductions, for those of you
who can't crack doing the books...


2416 DOC FILE PROTECTOR (UTIL)
'Is everyone in your family a nosey git and always looking at your
text files, then protect them with this document file protector.
Sounds like Family Fortunes doesnt it?'
 
 
<Nope>


2417 STEAM ENGINE ANIM
A clever little animation which follows on in the series and shows
the complete workings of a steam engine. Great education tool.


2418 2 STROKE PETROL ENGINE ANIM
The educational animations continue, this time with a petrol engine.


2419 TACK V1,2
Broad & Hare come up with a new version of THE ANIMATION CONSTRUCTION
KIT. Look out Rolf Harris.


2420 TACK MENU PICTURES
Menu pictures for 2419


2421 TACK MUSIC MODULES
Music modules for 2419.


2422 NUMERIX
'A great PD game given a stonker of a high mark by my mate SIMON at
THE ONE.  Played with blocks and things, this is a superb game.'
 
 
<Draw your own conclusions...>


2423 LET ME OUT
An animation.


2424 NIRVANA 
Not to be mistaken with the Seattle band, this is a rather nice
PD game.


2425 GAMES COMPILATION
A games compilation with around 10 high quality games ranging from
PacMan to, erm, something else. Plenty of choice for everyone.


2426 POP QUIZ
Think you're something of a pop guru? Answer questions about your
favourite groups, and test your knowledge.


2427 MR BUNS ESSENTIALS UTILS
The Bun is back with a collection of utilities to mesmerize your
machine. Plenty of goodies including DirWork 1.62


2428 REVENGE ANIM
Remember the very old anim with the raytraced unicycle bombimg down
the road?  Well, Craig Collins has come up with a very good sequel but
this time it incorporates a very fast car. (Presumably an idea taken
from THE RUN) All in all, this demo comes up to Craig's usual high
standards.


2429 K'VORT ANIM
Animation of a ship from Star Trek. One for the trekkies only.


2430 MIND RIOT (DEMO)
A brilliant demo with some superb effects especially the raytraced
part, this time from ANDROMEDA.
 
 
<The EuroScene likes this one as well. Unpack>


2431 17 BIT UTILS 1
Compiled by Kumfy Ken, this disk comprises of Lazi, Azap, Alock,
Megaed and Ezasm.


2432 17 BIT UTILS 2
Again from Kumfy Ken comes Arriba, Assigns, Bootlogo, Whatkick,
Pinknoise, Playit, Powerdata, Unzip and Unzip500.


2434 CONTINENTAL TECH DANCE (DEMO)
Also goes by the official name of MAYDAY. Described by 17-Bit as a
'very strobey rave disk' in the genre of Jesus On Es, but shorter,
it recieved plenty of magazine attention.


2435 BRAINSTORM MUSIC 
A reasonably put together music disk from the makers of ZINE.


2436 VOICE DISKMAG 1
Not a patch on Grapevine but a good read all the same. Loads of
articles to read, some controversial, some not.


2437 EXOTIC MUSIC RIPPER
A music ripper that will hunt down and rip over 35 different music
formats. <Sound/Pro/NoiseTracker, MED, Sonix, TFMX, &tc>
 
NB:  This is an address ripper and is not easy to use. Not
     recommended for beginners.


2438 FROGS DISKMAG 1
Another first issue diskmag. Plenty of articles available.


2439 VIRUS CHECKER 6.2
Exactly what it says, plus there's a sack load of other stuff on here
as well.


2440 AKIRA + X-MEN SLIDES
These pictures are excellent examples of their type. If you are a
big fan of manga stuff then you MUST unpack this set! The picture
stills are absolutely superb


2441 PROTRACKER V3.1
Latest version of this very popular tracker.  It has been completely
redesigned and there's loads more features than before.


2442 TECHNO
TECHNO TECHNO TECHNO TECHNO.
 
 
<Just for those who have been known to dance to their alarm clock
going off>


2443A AF'S WORKBENCH REPLACEMENT
Another 'How the WorkBench OUGHT to be set up' collection of system
tools and utilities. over 3 disks. Better than most.


2443B AF'S WORKBENCH REPLACEMENT
Part 2 of AF'S WORKBENCH REPLACEMENT


2443C AF'S WORKBENCH REPLACEMENT
Part 3 of AF'S WORKBENCH REPLACEMENT


2444 POOLS TOOLS 2
Football prediction program for that 'dream win'.


2445 GRAPH PRO
A graphics package for producing graphs. Say no more.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2446 KLINGON FLYBY ANIM
Yet another one of those nice Star Trek animations for all you
Trekkies.


2447 RAID 4
A SEUCK version of SWIV. This is one hell of a game. It's a bit jerky
but it plays well.


2448 SKYBOARDS TECHNO 2 (MUSIC)
A techno disk, being the follow-on from SkyBoards 1, and probably
the preview to SkyBoards 3. Spot the difference.


2449 VEKTOR (GAME)
It's a Tron 'Light Cycles' clone. 'Nuff said.


2450 CYCLE MILEAGE RECORDER (UTIL)
3 guesses, and the first 2 don't count.


2451 THE LITTLE TRAVELLER V1.1
An educational package which covers different countries, cultures,
currencies, &tc, based around a point/click/menu interface. Very
well done.


2452 CLAUSTROPHOBIA DEMO (NOT +)
17-Bit say 'It was put in for a reason, but im not gonna tell you why'
 
 
<Bribery?>


2453 NIC CUSWORTH DEMO
Some original music, NOT sampled, by none other then NC himself.


2454 WINE MAKING UTILS
Utilities for making wine. Recipes and sugar meters, 'n' things.


2455 CANNONBALL ANIM
A funny animation of a man getting fired out of a cannon among other
things.


2456 CREATURES DEMO
A product demo of Creatures. That so-so-so commercial game.


2457 THALAMUS SLIDES
Various slides from forthcoming Thalamus releases.


2458 LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT
For the 'Mr Optimistic' in your life. A template system for that
final document.


2459 BRIDGE  (GAME)
The Golden Gate scenario, with Severn and Tower enhancements in the
full version.
 
 
<Okay, I lied, it's cards>


2460 VMORPH V1.1
The PD Morphing program. Produce graphic effects just like every TV
advert showing now. Done to death? Surely not.
 
 
<Irony, for those of you who hadn't guessed>


2461 CINEMORPH DEMO 1
Product demo showing just what the commercial package can do.


2462 CINEMORPH DEMO 2
See above.


2465 TEXT ENGINE V4 (UTIL)
The latest version of this brilliant Word Processing package that even
rivels some of its commercial counterparts.  SUPERB.


2467 CAPTAIN BONUS (GAME)
Not a bad PD version of Prince of Persia.  Very well drawn sprites and
the movement of the character is brilliant (NOT +)
 
** SHAREWARE **


2468 SUPER TOMCAT (GAME)
A horizontal scrolling SEUCK game.


2469 FONT FARM 2 (+ ONLY)
Back by popular demand comes Gary Henderson with another bucket load
of fonts to suit all tastes.
 
 
<Original 17-Bit edit mentioned Kylie Minogue, but we @ Almathera
like to pretend we've got credibility>


2470 GAME TAMER V3
Obvious follow up to Game Tamer V2.  Gary Henderson comes up with a
disk filled with yet more cheats.


2471 ZIRCON AMIGA MAG 3
Not up to the standards of Grapevine but a very nice read all the
same. Covers quite a few topics including a feature about 17-Bit.


2472 TUMPTY AND THE FIREWORK ALPHABET
An educational package for young kids learning their alphabet.  When
the kid gets a question right then fireworks and stuff shoot all over
the place.  Written in AMOS this is a good package
 
** DEMO VERSION of SHAREWARE PACKAGE **


2473 STAR WARS ARTWORK
Mostly Star Wars slides, with real world objects mixed in as well.


2475 CREATE ADVENTURE GAMES
Yet another adventure ganes creator.


2476 BOMB JACKY
A PD rendition of Bomb Jack. All the features of the original.
 
 
<Is that good or bad?>


2477 FLASHBACK DEMO
Product demo of the commercial game, the most notable feature of which
is the soundtrack by that notable 'Scene musician, Audiomonster.


2478 HOW THE EARTH BEGAN
An educational package teaching the little kiddywinkies all about the
big explosion and how a bit dropped off the sun and all that stuff.


2479 SINGALONG A NURSERY RHYMES
Popular nursery rhymes in karaoke format which the kids can sing along
to and drive you up the bloody wall.


2480 AMY PD REVIEW 1
A 'Scene submission from Australia reviewing all the latest <at tine
of writing> PD software.


2482 HILLBILLY ANIM
From the dynamic duo who brought you the Father Christmas Anim and the
Boat Anim comes this new anim.  Basically its a one screen affair but
theres so much going in that its just so good.  Lots of different
animated bits to look at, just like the others.


2483 CLI-TRIS AND PACMAN (GAMES)
A very weird Tetris clone, and a version of PacMan on here called
Pacattack. Just given 90 percent in THE ONE magazine (MAY 93)


2485 POLYED V1.0 (UTIL)
A fully working polygon editor which enables you to create 3D polygons
and other such shapes.


2486 MENU LAUNCHER V1.0 (UTIL)
Menulauncher is a tool designed to start any application simply by
clicking on a button. It displays up to 15 buttons in a small window
each of which corresponds to a command.


2487 TAD AND MAGADS (UTILS)
Two utilities on here. Firstly TAD (The amiga directory).  This is a
directory which lists every company in the UK which has something to
do with the Amiga. Whether it be PD or software or repairs, it's here.
MAGADS is a very basic menu system to run programs on a CLI.


2488 CINDY CRAWFORD SLIDES
'Now we're talking.  These are corking pictures of one of the most
luscious birds on the planet. THEY ARE NOT NUDE SLIDES. But do show
the woman in various states of undress. MEGA MEGA MEGA'
 
 
<Oh, no, it's all got a bit sticky...>


2489 CINDY CRAWFORD SLIDES
Cindy Crawford semi-nude. Big deal. Continuation from 2488.


2492 HAM 8 VISTAS (AGA ONLY)
Superbly well created vistas especially for consumption on AGA
machines.


2493 THE ENFORCER ANIM
'Oh dear.  I don't know how this got in.  Need I say more.'
 
<Probably not>


2494A 18TH HOLE GOLF (GAME)
A rather snazzy golf game, the first of its genre in PD. Viewed from
overhead, it's a case of check the windspeed and get teed off.
Very good indeed.


2494B 18TH HOLE GOLF (GAME)
Part 2 of 18TH HOLE GOLF


2495 ATTRACTION MUSIC
A nice collection of dreamy wayward tunes, a bit different from your
average techno crap.


2496 EXCEL DATABASE (UTIL)
A very nice little database


2497 MARCOS BOX OF FUN
17-Bit reckon this is 'sooooooooooooooooooooo funny'. 3 animations
on the disk.
 
** Requires 1.5 MEG of RAM **


2498 PICTURE PUZZLE (GAME)
Slidey-block puzzle based on an image. Very well done.


2499 FRUIT SALAD
This is a 'brilliant' platform game with lots of samples from top pop
records. The usual 'collect things and kill other things' rules,
but nicely done.


2500 MUSIC BY GLADIATORS
Not the cult-but-crap TV show, but a 'Scene music disk. We think.


2501 CHILDRENS SONGS
Well known childrens' songs. Keep this disk away from your children,
lest they sing along and redirect your thoughts to euthanasia.


2502 1200 UTILS (AGA ONLY)
More utils for the wonder machine.  This disk consists of Pcx, Dif,
Sysinfo, Magic Menu, B.Blank and Doublex.


2503 WINDBLEND FRACTAL GENERATOR (AGA ONLY)
An excellent fractal generator for AGA machines.


2504 BLACK ENERGY MUSIC 
A rather nice music disk, well put together and coded by the Black
Energy crew.


2505 ARRS FANTASY SLIDES
No, not fantasy slides of Arses but Slides from the huge party hosted
by Crystal, Silents and Anarchy last year. Superb hand drawn graphics,
some of which are high-res, and some of which... aren't.


2506 17 BIT UTILS VOLUME #3
This one compiled as always by Kumfy Ken, this disk includes Sttext,
Eprommer, Epu, Rdb-tools, Sysinfo and Bformat.


2507 EASYCALC (UTIL)
The best PD spreadsheet available. Full working version, very easy
to use, loads of commands. EXCELLENT.


2508 MONTAGE LANDSCAPES
Very hi res full colour landscape clipart.


2509 MONTAGE WILDLIFE
Very hi res full colour wildlife clipart.


2510 MONTAGE LANDSCAPES 2
More very hi res full colour landscape clipart.


2511 AMOS PRO UPDATER
The one youve all being waiting for. Yep, its the update for amos
professional.


2512 SUPERKILLERS FOR WB3
The latest version of safe hex internationals virus killers disk is
now for your 1200 and 4000.  It has the latest versions of the best
killers around. It didn't stop Liberator 5 though.


2513 SUPERKILLERS FOR WB1.3 AND WB2
Same as above but for wb1.3 and 2 machines.


2514A QUALITY TIME (ANIM)
This is Schwartz at his best by far bringing to you a four disk, 5 meg
extravaganza, telling the story of Flip the Frog trying to get a quiet
evening with hig girlfriend. Runs for almost 6 minutes, and is
probably the best ever animation to be produced with MovieSetter.
 
** Requires 5 MEGS of RAM. 2 drives or hard drive for sanity **


2514B QUALITY TIME
Part 2 of QUALITY TIME


2514C QUALITY TIME
Part 3 of QUALITY TIME


2514D QUALITY TIME
Part 4 of QUALITY TIME


2515A ELECTRONIC WORD
For all religious types, this set of disks contain the New and the Old
testament. Each chapter has its own icon so if you want to look up who
said what when, its very simple to find.


2515B ELECTRONIC WORD
Part 2 of ELECTRONIC WORD


2515C ELECTRONIC WORD
Part 3 of ELECTRONIC WORD


2516 DONG DEMO
As the title suggests, this disk contains a demo of the forthcoming
commercial release, DONG!


2517 WB2 HACKS
A collection of amusing hacks for you to play with when there is
nothing better to do!


2518 A1200 WB HACKS
As above, but for WB3 only.


2519 JRCOMM (UTIL)
Version 1.02 of this poular comms package.


2520 OCTASTUFF MUSIC
A collection of very nice 8 channel toons!


2521 MICROMARKET 1.1
Good Stockmarket game.


2522 TRONICAD (UTIL)
Electronic Circuit Board designer.


2523 MATHS ADVENTURE
Good educational adventure game where you have to solve puzzles to
progress. Ages 8+


2524 MORE PRINTER DRIVERS (UTIL)
Approx 100 ready made drivers, just select the one you want, install
it to your Devs:Printers/ directory and you're away!


2525A CHARLEY CAT
This anim, Charly Cat Out In Public, features said Cat chasing after
a Girly Cat!
 
** Requires 2 MEGS of RAM **


2525B CHARLEY CAT
Part 2 of CHARLEY CAT ANIM


2526 DUNCAN DUNG BEETLE
Another ** 2 MEG ** anim, basically about a beetle & a pile of dung!


2527 DESERT DOO DOO
Nice animation of a man finding an Ice-Cream van in the desert!


2528A LEMMINGS REVENGE
Great anim featuring those adorable (??) lemmings, finally getting
their own back on that beastly bomber!
 
** Requires 2 MEGS of RAM **


2528B LEMMINGS REVENGE
Part 2 of LEMMINGS REVENGE


2530 TEAM HOI PLANET GROOVE
The first 1200-only demo. A tad disappointing as it doesn't really
push the machine but it does feature some nice colour cycling and
fast vector routines for any fans!


2531A STAR TREK NEXT GEN TRIVIA
For the 'Trekkies' amongst you - test your knowledge with the aid of
this great new quiz!


2531B STAR TREK NEXT GEN TRIVIA
Part 2 of STAR TREK NEXT GEN TRIVIA


2532 UTILITYMAKER
If you have ever wanted to compile your own utilities disk (and we
know there are lots of you out there!!) this program will help you
along!
 
 
<It's called 'Trash half the WorkBench and put your own stuff on!'>


2533 STERLING ENGINE
Another one of those great educational disks which shows what goes on
inside an engine.


2534 DISKMANAGER V3.0
A good directory utility comaprable to the likes of SID and Dirmaster


2535 ZIRCON AMIGA MAG #1
Issue 1 contains articles, music & utilities. Needs 1 MEG of RAM.


2536 ZIRCON AMIGA MAG #2
As 2535, but different.


2537 NOSTROMO CHEATS AND SOLVES
Get to the end of those troublesome games with the help of this handy
disk!


2538 MANDELBROT MANIA
Some really nice, colourful fractals, put together as an animated
slideshow!


2539 ALIEN BASH (GAME)
Alien Breed on a budget!


2540A REVENGE OF THE BLOB
Humourous anim where a kid's breakfast gets it's own back!


2540B REVENGE OF THE BLOB
Part 2 of REVENGO OF THE BLOB


2541 TALENT DEMO
Talent are a relatively new team, and this production is pretty good
apparently!


2542 FREEDOM CRACK 11
Latest issue of this popular disk based mag from Zenith.


2543A KEFRENS DESERT DREAMS
'Latest & greatest demo from kefrens. Very nice with good routines!'
 
<Actually, Desert Dream won The Gathering '93, held in Norway during
the summer this year. Play 'Spot Enigma/InTheKitchen/Odyssey' just
like the rest of us did. 3 excellent soundtracks kick though the
entire thing - scored by the coder, which is rare. Check it out!>


2543B KEFRENS DESERT DREAMS
Part 2 of DESERT DREAMS


2544 TRSI MISERY (DEMO)
The usual high standard from Red Sector, as is the NoRM. Smashing!


2545 CRYPTOBURNERS SLIDES
Stunning fantasy art slideshow. The quality of the pictures is
unbelievable! A bit risque, as there are some very nice arty 'Boobs N
Bits' contained but they are so well done and atmospheric that it
shouldn't cause any upset at all to anyone. VERY VERY NICE!


2546 RUSSIAN FONTS
Should you need them. These are they.


2547 SYSTEM DEFENDER (GAME)
Good souped up version of 'Oblivion' (Williams Defender Clone). More
colour. More effects. Rated highly in 'The One' Magazine.


2548 550C PRINTER DRIVER
AT LAST, Now all you peeps dont have to stay in with your HP550C, Just
hop in the back seat and tell the driver where you want to go!!  (???)
 
<Puns Rn't Us>


2549 CLASSIX GOLD (WB2 & 3 ONLY)
A selection of classical tunes gets the treatment from Rob Baxter.


2550 EGG BLASTERS GAME
Egg killing?


2551 SKYBOARDS MUSIC III
More techno unfortunately. Very similar to SKYBOARDS 1 & 2 so fans
will like it!


2552 AMOS GAMES COLLECTION
Includes Glassback, Snakebite and a couple of others.


2553 BOOTX 5.23
Latest and LAST version of this very popular program, get it while you
can!


2554 BEACH ANIMATION
Another one of those very detailed and involved single screen
animations from Carl Inc.


2555 NAVAL CLIPART
There's not really much to tell about this one, except its pictures of
sailors and things and NOT belly buttons!


2556 AMY PD REVIEW 2
Second of these diskmags containing reviews on PD.


2558 WOODEN HEART COMIC STRIP
Judging from the 17-bit blurb about this one, it's crap.


2559A MONTY PYTHON ANIM
Pythonesque humour on HOW NOT TO BE SEEN. Very basic illustrations
backed by a very nice sample.


2559B MONTY PYTHON ANIM
Part 2 of MONTY PYTHON ANIM


2560A DEMON DOWNLOAD
17-bit didn't like this Silents production much, which is surprising
as they liked Expose, which is the same style. For all those of you
who prefer BladeRunner to Jurassic Park, enjoy concept pieces and
have an attention span of more than the average MacDonalds employee.


2560B DEMON DOWNLOAD
Part 2 of DEMON DOWNLOAD


2561A GRAPEVINE 15
The long awaited <as per> latest issue of Grapevine. Packed to the
brim with loads of articles for you all to absorb. If your interested
in 'Scene' happenings then GV is something you MUST buy!
 
 
<Or RAW. Or Freedom Crack. Or the EuroChart. Or HeadLine>


2561B GRAPEVINE 15
Part 2 of GRAPEVINE 15


2561C GRAPEVINE 15
Part 3 of GRAPEVINE 15


2562 HAM 8 PICS
More pics for you to peep at on your nice new A1200!


2563 INVENTORY II
Keep track of stock and staff wages with this neat program!
 
** SHAREWARE **


2564 BOP & PLOP (GAME)
Vertical scrolling shoot-em-up. Hopefully not toilet related.


2565 CAPRI SLIDESHOW
The author reckons there are a lot of Amiga owning Capri fans out
there, so where the heck are you!!
 
 
<Cringing with embarassment and not owning up, perchance?>


2566 RJ UTILITIES
Incudes Perfect Paint, Image Workshop, Mouseskills, File Scrambler and
PsycoCircuit. All documentation supplied.


2567 GAMES GALORE 14
Contains Tank Attack, Game Tamer V3.0, YatZ, Deluxe Pac Man & The
Turn.


2568 GAMES GALORE 15
The very latest addition to these very popular games comps, Includes
Warriors, Atoms, Girl-Actions, Cybernetix, Klondike & Poker.


2569A HORN CONCERTOS (MUSIC)
This new version will work on WB2, the older 1.3 version can be found
earlier on in the library. Needs 1 MEG of CHIP RAM. 
Author: Hugh Gammon


2569B HORN CONCERTOS
Part 2 of HORN CONCERTOS


2570 FLUTE CONCERTO (MUSIC)
Updated to work on WB2, Needs 1 MB CHIP.


2571A AMERICAN FOOTBALL
If you don't quite understand everything to know about American
Football then this 2 disk set will teach you.


2571B AMERICAN FOOTBALL
Part 2 of AMERICAN FOOTBALL


2572 AMOSLOADSAMONEY (GAME)
Fab new fruit machine sim for any addicts that can really afford to go
to the arcade and lose wads of cash!


2573 RAVE SAMPLES
Xi Software present RAVE-O-MATIC!!, Turn on, Tune in & Plop Off!!


2574 PRO UTILS
A few more bits & bats from Xi Software. All the more popular utils
such as PowerPacker, VirusChecker etc.


2575A SNOW JOKE ANIM
Charly Cat in persuit of his favorite girl!
 
** 2 MEGS of RAM required **


2575B SNOW JOKE ANIM
Part 2 of SNOW JOKE


2576 ENGINEERS KIT (UTIL)
Nice piece of tackle for all you peeps that are paranoid that
something is wrong with your machine. Plenty of diagnostic progs
included.


2577 CYNOSTIC SLIDES
An excellent slideshow which shows off the different screen modes of
the A1200!


2578 THE DESIGNER
PD version of a program which lets you design maps and background
graphics for games.


2579 SPECTRUM EMULATOR V1.6
It works on a 1200, it has sound and runs most of the classics.
Throw away your old rubber doormat and get to grips with some
real nostalgia!


2580 NIGHTBREED AGA SLIDES
Slideshow of various 'things' to look at on your 1200.


2581 NIGHTBREED AGA SLIDES 2
Disk 2 of the above but will run seperatley.


2582 TANKHUNTER (GAME)
2 player maze combat. Blow your opponent away!


2583 ELEVATION 2
Enhanced follow up to that ridiculously addictive game Elevation!


2584 SLAMBALL (GAME)
Manage your own futuristic Slamball team and see if you have got what
it takes to become Pro!


2585 ASTRONOMY V2.0
A mixture of data generation and graphic displays for all you budding
Patrick Moores. Good as an educational source too.


2586 CGFONTS #1
A collection of 'fonts de la compugraphique' to use with ProPage v3.0
and other CompuGraphic friendly apoplications.


2587 CGFONTS #2
As above.


2589 OCTAMED PRO V2.0
Just released onto PD, this is a full version of one of the best
sound trackers EVER released!


2590 CHEQUEBOOK & TUTOR
Now you can keep track of all your finances AND learn how to speak
either French or German at the same time! If you cough up your
registration fee you even get the choice of Spanish & Italian AS
WELL!!


2591 BAIT MASKING
Newest Shwartz animation about a worm doing his best to try and avoid
getting eaten by several hungry looking fishies!


2592 CG FONTS #3
See 2586.


2593 CG FONTS #4
A few more of the above.


2594 ASTRO 22 V3.0
An update to the program on disk 1961. Requires 1MB to run and
incorporates enhnced features and graphics, more accurate calculations
and HD support.


2595 ADVANCE HEROQUEST AID (UTIL)
This is an aid to those stuggle DM's etc. No more flicking though
mounds of books and tables, let the computer handle all the fighting
and spellcasting for you!


2596 SOLITAIR SAMPLER
A collection of 5 well put together Solitaire type card games which
you can play by yourself.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2597 TECHNOLOGIC DEATH
Demo from the polish group "Mad Elks". Lasts about 6 minutes and is in
many ways similar to Jesus on E's.
 
 
<But the music is <A> a damn site better, and <B> more varied>


2598 DODGE 'EM (GAME)
Guide your car around a maze picking up as many dots as you can whilst
avoiding on-coming cars. Each level gets faster & harder.


2599 SATANIC RITES #4 (MAG)
Latest S.R Release which includes 417 pages crammed with artwork,
articles & music.


2600A ALCHEMY 'RAGE' (DEMO)
Highly recomended futuristic 'story board' demo along the lines of
PlanetSide & Odyssey.


2600B ALCHEMY 'RAGE'
Part 2 of ALCHEMY 'RAGE'


2601 BOUNDLESS VOID (DEMO)
Excellent new demo featuring all the usual bobs 'n' vectors as well
as robots in bikinis! The music is a bit suspect but its still
definitely worth a look!


2602 BRAINBOW - THE RAINBOW PUZZLER
Requires 1MB.  Intriguing and addictive puzzle game in which you get
to 'do various things to loads of coloured shapes to turn your screen
into just one colour...'
 
 
<As the phrase goes: ???>


2603A TWO TOMS PRESENTS - THE PARNET SETUP
Good utility for the remote linking 2 Amigas.  All you need is a
ParNet cable and you're away!


2603B TWO TOMS PRESENTS - THE PARNET SETUP
Part 2 of THE PARNET SETUP


2604 GUSH!
1 MB Required for this game.


2605 RAGING HORMONE III
Men-Talk. Latest offering from Paul Tye. 'Raging' gets some good
advice from his uncle!  1 MB needed.


2606 SHUFFLE RUN
2 Player only game, where the objective is to 'shuffle' across the
screen using sliding tiles and beat your opponent to collecting
'tokens'


2608 3D GAMES
A selection of 3 games in the great 'Driller' FreeScape tradition.


2610 CDTV PLAYER V
A util that enable CD users to listen to music CD's whilst using
Workbench / Shell. Smashing! Also contains Fractal Clouds, and
some wierd Greek & Russian Fonts!
 
 
<You can listen to CDs without this. Just insert the CD, and press
PLAY on the frontpanel or remote control. Save 100k!>


2611 MEXICAN MASSACRE
Very unusual spin off of the old pong game, but this one is vertical
& horizontal! Rock hard to play but it's quite neat!


2612 FAKEMEM (UTIL)
Fools your A1200 into thinking that it has FASTMEM present. Thus
allowing you to run more stuff!


2613 SHADOW SAMPLE MAKER (UTIL)
Version 3.1, an update to one of our earlier disks in the library.


2614 MYSTERY 2144AD (GAME)
You play the part of a detective on an alien planet and your mission
is to solve a crossword. Murder. Whatever.


2615A BEATBOX (MUSIC)
A 2 disk set of melodic tunes. Very good quality & far removed from
the wave of techno recently.


2615B BEATBOX
Part 2 of BEATBOX


2617 TITANIC CHEATS V1.40
More cheats for some of the more recent games!


2618 MING-SHU CHINESE ASTROLOGY
Are you a Water Rat (like Marcus), A Fire Sheep (like Nicky), a Wood
Tiger (Like Rob!) or a Gullible Prat (like Timeshare owners)?
 
Find out what chinese astrology holds for you!


2620 MULTIPLEX V1.1
Slide blocks and reconstruct picture type thing....


2621 SUNJETS
Nice, basic but effective animation from Craig Collins of three jets
flying at high speed against the sun. Not much animation but the
graphics are marvelous!


2622 AGA UTILS (WB3 ONLY)
A change from slideshows. AGA Utilities include the following for 3.x
machines only: Aga Test, Fakemem, Kill AGA, New Menu, Plasma,
PPShow V3 &tc.


2623 CYBERNEX MUSIC 
A good music disk with some excellent tunes on it!


2625 BOX ADVENTURE (GAME)
A huge text adventure from the author of Life After Death.


2626 REBOUND (GAME)
2-player Pong clone with marginal enhancements to stop you falling
asleep.


2627 SERIOUS BACKGAMMON
This is a backgammon game, for those of you with an attention span
of more than 25 seconds.


2628 ULTIMATE CHEAT 
Another cheats disk with up to the minute hints and tips on all your
favourite games.


2629 FAST INTRO MAKER (WB2 + WB3 ONLY)
After the RSI Demomaker hit the realms of commercialism there was
nothing. Until now. This new demo creator is mega. Just load a
picture, a module and it does the rest for you. Disk includes
pictures and modules.
 
 
<Hannibal, Jester and Facet are in for a surprise. Not>


2630 ALVIN AEROSOL IN CAN IT
'After me (Rob) and Nicky sat watching this anim for half an hour we
still didnt have a clue what it was about, until clever clogs Marcus
came and explained it in 2 seconds.  A mega anim from a mega
animator.'
 
 
<Rob, Marc & Nicky. "And we know a song about that...">


2631 FORECASTER (V2.01)
Yet another horse racing predictor for those who reckon bookies at
racecourses are Freemasons on acid. Go to it with the horse odds,
and Bob's your proverbial.


2632 PYROGENIC SHORT MODS 3
Stacks and stacks of you bought the last short mods disk from this
group.  Well here they are again with another disk packed with chip
tunes from various different sources.


2633 PREMIER PICS
Football meets the 'Pairs' type games. Sort of.


2634 D COPY 3.1 (UTIL)
Definately not a swizzle, this is the long awaited follow up to DCOPY
2 by Turbo of DMOB.  Loads of new features and it even works on ALL
machines (600, 1200, 4000). There's no stopping it.
 
 
<What, no ABORT feature?>


2635 U-CHESS (4 MB REQUIRED)
The first ever AGA PD game. Superb 256 colour chess which looks
absolutely stunning.  Shame about the memory requirements.


2636 SOUNDMAN JUNIOR
A 16bit sample manipulator <We think>
 
** SHAREWARE **


2637 SKIDMARKS
Extremely good clone of the arcade game '4x4 Off Road Racing'
 
** SHAREWARE **


2638 VMORPH 2.21
Latest version of this near classical PD morphing programme.


2639 GRAND PRIX MANAGER 1993
A great game for all you budding Nigel Mansells.  Guide yourself
through the season racing the cars buying the engines and stuff and
having arguments with Frank Williams. Slug to balance on upper lip
not included.


2640 242 (Two 2 player games)
A good two player version of Tron that is very fast, and a game with
blocks and things that looks good. <Could be anything, but you've
paid for the CD, so what the hell...>


2641 STARVIEW ASTROLOGY
A program which allows you to enter date, time, longitude and latitude
and the computer will generate a picture of the constellation at that
specific point.


2642 FIREFLY
A mega shoot-em-up game.


2643 GAME TAMER V4.01
Latest update to the always popular game tamer cheats and tips disk
written and compiled by The Hendersons.


2644 FONT FARM V3
A new Font Viewer yet again from Gary Henderson.


2645A START OF THE ART (UTILS)
A collection of art based tools including Cloud 9, Model 4D, Fenster,
Image Lab, Image ED, Ultrapaint etc etc.  15 utilities in total.


2645B START OF THE ART
Part 2 of START OF THE ART


2646 BONDMINE (GAME)
Bolderdash clone. 1200 compatible. 'Brilliant' according to ze
suppliers.


2647 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS 5
Another collection of CG fonts for your favourite WP.


2648 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS 6
Another collection of CG fonts for your favourite WP.


2649 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS 7
Another collection of CG fonts for your favourite WP.


2650 THE GREAT ESCAPE OF BILLY BURGLAR
A brilliant game very professionally put together.  The object is to
keep Billy Burglar out of the spotlight which roams the screen while
avoiding various other nasties.


2651A ZYNEX 3
An animated space story on two disks which has loads of different
sections and it goes on for ages.  It's brilliant and the music is
superb as well. A bit like Odyssey, but not quite.


2651B ZYNEX 3
Part 2 of ZYNEX 3


2652 WINDY BOTTOM
An animation about a hapless weather man where nothing ever seems to
go right for him.


2653A FIT CHICKS (AGA ONLY)
According to the text, 'Mega sexy hot fit raunchy birds which you can
drool over in 256 colours.' Comment witheld.


2653B FIT CHICKS
Part 2 of FIT CHICKS


2654 PC TASK V2.00 (UTIL)
The latest version of the best software based PC Emulator ever.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2655 PENDLE EUROPA MUSIC MADNESS
A good music disk as ever from the Pendle Europa guys.


2656 TOTAL IRELEVANCE 2
Just another diskmag.


2657 CAPRI SLIDESHOW 2
"And every time I try something new, all they want is 1973..."
 
<BareNaked Ladies, "Box Set">


2658A STARBASE 13
Monkey Island clone-type game. Game-type clone. Described as 'mega
brilliant' by 17-Bit. 2 disks.


2658B STARBASE 13
Part 2 of STARBASE 13


2659 RED DWARF TRIVIA QUIZ
Think your're a fan of the cult show? Then check this out. Some
of the questions are rock hard and you've got to be a die-hard
to answer some of these. Very good though!


2660 FUN WITH CUBBY DEMO
Demo version of the CLR title of the same name. Brilliant educational
program with loads of stuff to do for/to young brats. The FULL
version is available from us priced 3.50 and requires WB2 or above.


2661 MAJOR LEAGUE
A Baseball game (We think)


2662 LEMMINGOIDS 2 (GAME)
Follow up to the highly popular Asteroids clone thing with
lemmings instead of little meteors.


2663 X-BEAT SEQUENCER
Mega Music Sequencer with lots of features.  If you dont like
Pro/Soundtracker then you'll probably like this.


2664 PHANTOMWARE SLIDESHOW
 


2665 PACMANS REVENGE (GAME)
Another Pacman clone. Not much different to the others but great
fun all the same.


2666 RHYTHMIC ORGY
Good music disk with various 't00nz, d00dz.


2667 TOTAL IRRELEVANCE 1
Med User Group official magazine.  Loads of news, samples, modules,
&tc.


2669 STRIKEBALL
A baseball game.


2670 CATALOGUE 3
'A good catalogue utility from none other then DAVID KIRK (WAAAA The
crowd goes wild)'
 
 
<I don't believe I'm reading this...>


2671 SUPERTRON
A Tron 'Light Cycles' clone with variable speed modes.


2672 RETINA EURO ONE
TECHNO TECHNO TECHNO with flashy epilepsy inducing screens.
 
 
<Car Boot Sale, Car Boot Sale, Car Boot Sale, Car Boot Sale...>


2673 QUANTUM
'Errr... Its a game. I played it for a bit but what you do i have no
idea. If you are a person who likes a bit of a challenge then get
this.'
 
 
<For more trite text flick to disk 2703>


2675A HEMROIDS MUSIC MELODYS
A new two disk music collection, professionally written. The tunes
are all excellent.


2675B HEMROIDS MUSIC MELODYS
Part 2 of HEMROIDS MUSIC MELODYS


2676 COMMUNICATE
If you want to learn sign language then look no further then this
brilliant disk. A good educational tool which is very well written
and presented.


2677A ON THE GREEN
An animation about the adventures of a golf ball.  This anim is quite
long and enjoyable.
 
** 1.5 MEG required. 2 drives or hard drive strongly recommended **


2677B ON THE GREEN
Part 2 of ON THE GREEN


2679 LEMMINGS 2 HARD DRIVE INSTALLER
You all know what this one does.
 
** 1 MEG CHIP + 1/2 MEG FAST REQUIRED **


2680A GRAPEVINE 16
What more can be said about this award winning (?) diskmag. Over 350
articles covering just about everything, in this issue.


2680B GRAPEVINE 16
Part 2 of GRAPEVINE 16


2680C GRAPEVINE 16
Part 3 of GRAPEVINE 16


2681 POPEYE
Brought to you by the guys who did Donkey Kong. A brilliant
conversion with all the features of the C64 classic.


2682 AMOS PRO UPDATER V1.12
Update from version 1.11
 
 
<No, really?>


2683 INTERFERENCE (DEMO)
Sanity come back with yet another high-quality production.


2684 CIRCUS
A bit like The Boat and The Xmas Anim.  Loads of stuff going on at
the same time.  If you liked them then get this.


2685 MUSICBASE V1.0 (UTIL)
A dedicated database for music CDs and cassettes. Edit fields include
track times, runtimes and artists.


2686 ALTERNATE REALITY
A bizarre animation, slightly reminiscent of the Twilight Zone. Loads
of stuff to see and a nice soundtrack to go with it.


2687 DOO DOO RETURNS
Short but sweet anim of a man in the desert in a similar vein to the
Eric Schwartz style.


2688 SAMPLES UNLIMITED #1
A disk full of good quality samples.


2689 DESKTOP VIDEO STUFF
Budget PD version of Scala.


2690 COVER UP
Short animation about a private detective.


2691 SCHMEGEGGI COMIC
A story about a caveman in cartoon strip style.  With loads of
excellent 32 colour pictures.  You can even send away for the
original 256 colour pictures for a small fee.


2692 ROAD TO HELL
The arcade classic SuperSprint hits the Amiga. Includes extra
features the arcade version never had. It's similar to Supercars
and is ** SHAREWARE **


2693 NOSTROMO CHEATS V1.1
A disk full of the latest game cheats and solutions


2694 NO SAMPLER UTILS
Rippers, music utilities and some modules are thrown on here.
Also makes a samples disk in under 2 minutes, CLI-free, just for all
you keyboardphobes.


2695 AKIRA SLIDES
Good (Hand drawn or scanned) pics of Akira Characters.  If you are a
fan then you must get this disk.


2697 SPACE INVASION (GAME)
An excellent version of the original classic Space Invaders with huge
sprites. NOSTALGIA ATTACK!


2698 HDCLICK V2.53 (UTIL)
The latest version of this very popular Hard Drive menu system


2699 PPMINI CRUNCH (UTIL)
A windowed version of PowerPacker which cuts out most of the extras
and just basically crunches disks!


2700 AGA GRAPHICS UTILS
Viewtek 1.05 <JPEG viewer> bundleg with some good JPEG pictures.
 
 
<JPEG is an image format that allows lossy compression with variable
compression ratios. It's an industry standard system>


2701 ENTITY
'A game where you have a zappa thingy in a box and you have to zap
the nasty thingies on the screen.Doesnt sound good but it is.'
 
 
<And you thought Sonic and Mario were purile and meaningless>


2702 POOLS WIZARD JUNIOR V1.0 (UTIL)
Hey! You! Yes, YOU! Want to win stacks of cash on the pools? Then try
this one for size! It will predict every result in the English and
Scottish leagues and then tell you that you've won a wod of dosh.
 
 
<Don't hold your breath>


2703 REVERSI 2
'This is a mega mega version of Othello.  It is a must if you like
this kind of game.  I love it so you must buy this today.  You can
even change the pieces to stuff like cars, buses, smiley faces, etc.'
 
 
<Come back Oscar Wilde. All is forgiven>


2704 HOTBLOX (GAME)
Another Tetris. Two player, optional mouse control, all the usual
features. Snore.


2705 RDPREP (UTIL)
The one everyone was asking for. A harddrive disk formatter and
preparer done by the kind guys at Microbotics.


2706 WITHDRAWN
(What Already!!!!)


2707 NUMTRIS (GAME)
A version of columns but with numbers instead of colours.


2708 SUPER PONG (NOT A1200)
Yet another version of the classic 2 player bat and ball game. With
'power ups and stuff like that'. So now you know.


2709 THE MAGIC FACTORY SLIDESHOW 1 (AGA ONLY)
Brilliant sci-fi pics done with Real 3D in HAM-8 Format.  The quality
of the pictures is excellent and beats the pants off most other AGA
slideshows.


2711 INTENSE (SECTOR ONE REBORN)
Extremely good SEUCK game, is that's not a contradiction in terms.
Loosely based on Alien Breed. Overhead blasting at its best.
 
 
<'Brilliant!', according to ze blurb>


2712 MENU MASTER 3 (UTIL)
Create your own menu system with this program (Whoopee!!)


2713 UTILITYMAKER V3.0
Create your own utility disks with this program (Double Whoopee!!)


2714 THE MAGIC FACTORY SLIDESHOW 2 (AGA ONLY)
Follow up to disk 2709.  Same sort of sci-fi pictures again with the
same high quality.  Make those non AGA owners green with envy.


2715 DINOWARP
Just for all you sad cases who jumped on the Dinosaur bandwaggon
earlier in the year. A dinosaur quiz. Loads and loads of questions
about all sorts of dinosaur crap.


2716 THRUST DUEL
A 2 player version of Thrust where the object of the game is just
to blow your opponent out of the sky.


2717 MUSIC ENGINE
 


2718 VIRTUAL DREAMS (DEMO)
Techno. With a really long bit of digitized animation of a guy
going to Tescos.  The usual high quality from Fairlight. PS: Don't be
fooled, for once it's not a crack...


2719 MANDELPLOT
Yet another mandelbrot generator.


2720 GAME TAMER V4.59
The latest version of the ultimate in game cheat disks.  Written as
usual by the Henderson kids!!


2721 ZAK 3
Entertaining graphic stories that are a little different from the
usual run-of-the-mill comic strips.  There are 2 on here, Pokerface
and Ed the Happy Clown.


2722 BLOADRUNNER
A conversion of the classic Spectrum (NOSTALGIA ALERT) version. A bit
like Dig Dug.  The object of the game is to dig holes, trap the
nasties and then wait for the holes to fill in again.  The game is
rock hard and the graphics and effects are crap but... it's addictive.


2723 ASASSINS BACK TO SCHOOL 1
The Assassins strike back but surprisingly not with a games disk.
This is full of educational stuff. Three programs on here, Counting
Fun, a simple sums game. Word Puzzle, a simple word game, and finally
Style is the classic pairs game.


2724 ASASSINS BACK TO SCHOOL 2
More Educational stuff on here.  Simon colours - a version of simon.
Cal maths, Capitals and Electric train.


2725 SPIDERSOFT UTILS
'Tons of you have asked for a decent garden designer and the one on
the Update didnt like certain machines.  Well theres a brilliant one
on here which allows plots, sheds, greenhouses etc etc.  Also on here
is a good item recorder so you can log all the serial numbers and
stuff of your 5 grand TV in case Mr Burglar pays a visit.  Not that
your likely to see it again though!' <As garbled by 17-Bit>


2726 TELE-SCROLL 1 VIDEO TITLER
Scroll texts, wipes, fades, &tc. Full documentation. It's either the
best PD titler yet. Or it isn't.


2727 TELE-TITLER 2 HI-RES VERSION
See 2726 for details


2728 TELE-TITLER 3 LO-RES VERSION
See 2726 for details


2729 AMY PD REVIEW V4.1
Latest release of this mini disk mag with reviews of latest PD and
other general articles to tickle your taste buds.


2730 CHURCH MUSIC
13 'favourite hymns' reworked in Sonix.


2731 EXIT-13
A pattern-matching game, with the added feature of hardware destruct
when you get frustrated by it.


2732 AMILOGO V1.4
Another version of Logo, or in the wurdz of 17-Bit:
'A turtle plotting commander thing, but in this version you dont need
a turtle.  (luverly)'
 
 
<Auuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuugh!>


2733A LUNCHTIME 4
The barmiest mag on the scene.  This is written by the biggest bunch
of loonies of all time.  Articles with names like The Further
Adventures of God 2 and Memoirs of a Country Doctor and Carry on
Communism. Love it, hate it or read it.


2733B LUNCHTIME 4
Part 2 of LUNCHTIME 4


2734 ICONSPLUS 1
Loads of icons on here which are suitable for replacing the standard
WB icons with.  Utils, prefs, system, &tc. They are all in 8 colour
whereas standard WB icons are 4 colour.  These may look very dodgy on
1.3 machines.


2735 ICONSPLUS 2
Loads of utilities on here including Viewtek, Snoopdos, Magicmenu,
Degrader,Toolsdaemon, and Execmaster. And more.


2736 ICONSPLUS 3
More utils on here including Disksalv 2, Nickprefs, Yak, and a few
others as well.


2737 AZ SPELL V2.01 (UTIL)
The latest version of this popular spellchecker.  Now knows 22,346
words.


2738A DIGITAL 3
A diskmag that has improved a lot, and covers music, 'Scene, PD, Star
Trek, Dr Who and other topics.


2738B DIGITAL 3
Part 2 of DIGITAL 3


2739 ADDRESS BOOK
For Kickstart 2.x and above. An addressbook where you can store all
your hot contacts and suppliers of kewl warez, d00dz.
 
 
<Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad Sad>


2741 HIGHWAY CODE Q&A
Is your driving test just round the corner? Can't remember the book? 
 
(A) Dont bother taking the test
(B) Unpack this disk and learn the easy way.
 
Loads of questions, pictures, &tc.


2747A MOTOROLA INVADERS (AGA ONLY)
This is an absolute STONKER, a CLASSIC, just BRILLIANT.  An AGA space
invaders game with some of the weirdest looking martians youll ever
see.  Absolute brilliant.  With a FULL sampled version of Metallica's
'Sad but true' as a soundtrack.


2747B MOTOROLA INVADERS
Part 2 of MOTOROLA INVADERS


2748 EDWORD PROFFESSIONAL V4.0
An updated version of this ever popular text editing package.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2749 SHORTMODULES 4
Another collection modules from Pyrogenic <Now Panacea>.  Loads
of modules from demo teams, and some inhouse chip tunes as well.


2750 GUMBYS FRACTALS
Four generators: Biomorphs, Chasym, IFSGen and Landscape 2.


2751 PEZZAS GAMES
5 games - Subattack, Classic Solitaire, Tuts Tomb, Landmine and
Cellanim.


2752 GUMBYS GAMES
5 games - AMastermind, Blocks 3D, Expello, Mancala and Parattack.


2753A MR MEN OLYMPICS
This game is sheer CLASS.  It takes about 5 of the events, 100 metres,
Javelin, Hammer, High Jump and Weightlifting.  Each Mr Man or Men
takes part in one of the events and using the old joystick waggling
method the player takes part.  Professionally written and drawn, and
the sound effects are excellent.


2753B MR MEN OLYMPICS
Part 2 of MR MEN OLYMPICS


2754A LAST STAND ON HOTH
This is the best non-cartoon anim EVER from the master himself Craig
Collins.  The story is basically following on from where the Star
Wars series left and shows what happened to the AT-ATs and the rebel
bases. Shot in black and white, no sound, but the quality of the
animation is outstanding. A must. ** 3 MEGS of RAM required **


2754B LAST STAND ON HOTH
Part 2 of LAST STAND ON HOTH


2754C LAST STAND ON HOTH
Part 3 of LAST STAND ON HOTH


2754D LAST STAND ON HOTH
Part 4 of LAST STAND ON HOTH


2755 EASYCALC+ (UTIL)
The best PD spreadsheet ever to grace the Amiga. A fantastic piece of
software given a favourable 10/10 in Amiga Shopper. Features include
extra maths functions <Nearly all Lotus 123 fubctions>, import/export
of data, ARexx interface, function browser, &tc. This program blows
most commercial spreadsheets out of the water. Requires KickStart 2.x
 
** SHAREWARE **


2756 3 WAYS TO STOP SMOKING
A reasonable animation demonstrating the perilous and sometimes
dangerous ways to kick the habit.


2757 DAVE B'S SAMPLES DISK 1
Samples and sound effects aplenty on this disk ranging from and
including snatches of sound taken from various films and albums
tanging from Big Ben, Various stuff from Dragnet, Mc Hammer, Chaka
Khan, Inxs, &tc. All are normal IFF files and will load into any
Tracker program.


2758 DAVE B'S SAMPLES DISK 2
More of the same on this disk.


2759 POINT OF SALE (AGA ONLY)
After what seems like an age comes the first all singing all dancing
GOOD AGA demo. Forget Team Hois. Mega 256,000 colour backdrops, super
fast vectors, and sprite scaling (SNES owners take note!) amongst
the other routines.


2760 JELLYQUEST 
A strange isometric 3D puzzle game based very loosely along the lines
of Q*Bert.  The basic idea is to change the blocks to a different
colour by jumping on them. Hazards include 1 way blocks and various
other counter measures guaranteed to do your head in.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2762 EXTENSIONS DEMO
There arent many "MEGA" Demos around at the moment but this one is of
exceptional quality.  Featured in CU Amiga and given a great write up
this contains stacks of new never seen before routines including the
Dot City and many other feats of eye popping code.  Works on all
machines.


2763 PARNET INSTRUCTIONS
Don't wanna get ripped off <Ahem> spending 20 quid on a Parnet cable?
Full colour digitized pictures and written instructions will take you
through the whole setup from start to finish showing you exactly what
to do without frying your machine. <17-Bit, the disk author and
ourselves take no responsibility for users pranging their hardware.
Be warned>


2764 MED USER GROUP MAG #3
A disk magazine for all you MED freaks out there. Contains tutorials,
news, samples modules and loads more.


2765 ESCAPE FROM DOOM
A nice RPG/Adeventure game for all fans of the Hack & Slash genre.


2766 MICROMARKET V1.2
Fancy yourself as a bit of wheeler dealer?  This game will give you
the chance to buy and sell shares and generally follow the
stockmarkets.  Addictive stuff.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2767 TEXTENGINE V4.1 (UTIL)
The best editor just got better.  New features include brand new
screen layout.  Text searcher facility.  128Kb text buffer. Built-in
spell checker with 36,000 word dictionary.  Fully WB2.x compatible.
ASCII files can be loaded and saved with ease.  12 text styles
available for use with any preferences supported printer.  Fully
configurable <PAL/NTSC/hires/superhires/interlace video modes, page
margins, word wrap, function-key macros, colour palette, &tc>
** SHAREWARE **


2768 SLIME
'Not quite sure what you do on this game but it looks quite fun.
Go on buy it, give yourself the element of surprise!!!'
 
 
<Suck it and see, then blame Marcus?>


2769A RETINA BURN SOURCE CODE
For all the would-be coders. Two disks spanning the complete source
code for Retina Euro One demo.


2769B RETINA BURN SOURCE CODE
Part 2 of RETINA BURN SOURCE CODE


2770 FATAL MISSION 2
Shoot-em-game which follows, not surpisingly in the same vein as
Fatal Mission 1, whatever that was.


2771 CAPRI SLIDESHOW 3
Look, it's not 1973 any more. Sheesh!


2772A DISCOVERY OF THE ATOM
An excellent educational package explaining the complete workings of
the atom.  Fll colour pictures, animations, text, &tc. All aspects
are covered from the creation, nuclear fusion and much more.
 
** 1.5MB RAM & 2 DRIVES RECOMMENDED, but not essential. **


2772B DISCOVERY OF THE ATOM
Part 2 of DISCOVERY OF THE ATOM


2773 ATTACK
A reasonable animation about a stealth bomber and a man with a rocket
launcher.  Both of them come to a sticky end.
 
**1.5MB REQUIRED**


2774 MAGNUM V1.7
The latest version of the most popular disk magazine creator on the
AMIGA.


2775A GRAPEVINE 17
The latest issue of the most popular disk magazine in history <*>
arrives. Containing around 400 articles on every different subject
under the sun. If you like a good read then get this TODAY.
 
 
<*> Actually, there's at least 4 diskmags more popular than this one,
according to the 'Scene EuroChart.


2775B GRAPEVINE 17
Part 2 of GRAPEVINE 17


2775C GRAPEVINE 17
Part 3 of GRAPEVINE 17


2776A MANGA SLIDES (AGA ONLY)
A fantastic 4 disk slideshow of Manga Pics. If you've got an A1200
or A4000 and you're a fan of this kind of stuff, then unpack this
set. There are around 40-50 handdrawn Hi-Res 256 colour pictures on
these disks, all set around the Japanese Anime theme.  Absolutely
brilliant.


2776B MANGA SLIDES (AGA ONLY)
Part 2 of MANGA SLIDES


2776C MANGA SLIDES (AGA ONLY)
Part 3 of MANGA SLIDES


2776D MANGA SLIDES (AGA ONLY)
Part 4 of MANGA SLIDES


2779 POWERLOGO V1.3
Power LOGO is an experimental dialect of the LOGO programming
language.  It is a very high level language, easy to use, and easy to
learn.  Yet it has some low level power as well.


2780 ZYRAD
A frustrating overhead 'collecting' type game. The object is to
collect all the 'things' without going back on yourself.  Fairly
addictive.


2782 WELCOME TO THE MACHINE
4 animations with varying degrees of quality in the Carl. Inc mould.
Just a single screen for each anim with loads of stuff going on in
each one.  The anims include Krazy Kontraptions & Gerbil Power amongst
others.


2783 AMIBASE PRO 2 V1.8 (UTIL)
The latest version of the best Amiga PD Database ever seen.


2784 OCTAMED TUTOR
Designed to help those users who have either Octamed Pro. 3
or one of the later versions of Med, and are unsure of the methods
required to get these programs to make music. It takes you through all
the different bells, whistles, knobs and twiddly bits.  There are a
couple of example modules on here too.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2785 MAGIC WB
Using this disk will instantly transform your WB into a multi coloured
dazzling extravaganza.  The program itself will re-install all the
icons to 8 colour really well drawn ones and also will add a very nice
backdrop as well. Cult followings behind programs are rare. This disk
proves that they exist.  Highly recommended.


2786 RUSH
Rush is a directory utility for AmigaDOS 2.0 or greater.  It allows
files and directories to be manipulated quickly and easily.  Rush uses
features of AmigaDOS 2.0, 2.1, and 3.0, and follows the Amiga User
Interface Style Guide.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2788 AMBUSH
A highly useful little utility.  Ever tried to load new fonts onto
your workbench and endeed up with text all over the icons? Well this
program will sort all that out by resizing the windows and generally
having thrashing around to get your WB looking cool again.  Use in
conjunction with disk 2785 for a revamped look!


2789 ASTRO 22 V3.5
Astro.22 Pro.  Astrology is a program that accurately calculates the
position of the planets, cusps and zodiac positions to within
approximately thirty seconds of arc.  It is specifically designed for
the discerning Astrologer who needs a comprehensive range of features
combined with accuracy, versatility, upgradeability and ease of use -
at an affordable price!  ** SHAREWARE **


2790 MENTAL IMAGE GAMES 1
A compilation with 3 games on here which are all A1200 compatible.
Jeff Minters classic Grid Runner, an Arkanoid clone called Rebound
and a fruit machine sim called Winning Post which is ** SHAREWARE **


2791 MENTAL IMAGE GAMES 2
The second compilation from Mental Image this time includes 3 more
games.  Satu (Shooting), Willy & the Castle of Dreams (Platform) and
for some inexpicable reason, Winning Post AGAIN.


2792 MUG BASS SAMPLES
This sample disk has been compiled with PD BASS samples.  No samples
are duplicated.  They are all normal IFF's and will load into any
Tracker.


2793 MUG DRUMKIT SAMPLES
This sample disk has been compiled with PD DRUMKIT samples.  No
samples are duplicated.  They are all normal IFF's and will load into
any Tracker.


2794 MUG DRUMKIT SAMPLES 2
This sample disk has been compiled with MORE PD DRUMKIT samples.  No
samples are duplicated.  They are all normal IFF's and will load into
any Tracker.


2795A READ & LEARN VOLUME 1
Read & Learn is the first of a new series colourful stories.  Aimed at
children between the ages of 4 & 7 it is set out in a similar way to a
book allowing children to look at colourful illustrations and read
clear words.  Also provided is the facility to hear the story.  Not
only this but the story animates itself.  A simple and familiar story
is used each time to help the child develop his or her reading skills.


2795B READ & LEARN VOLUME 1
Part 2 of READ & LEARN VOLUME 1


2796 JUNIOR MATHS
This is a maths teaching program for children aged between around 4 &
6.  This paricular disk is only a demo version and only the counting
option is accessible.  Upon registering, the full version incorporates
adding, subtracting, greater than, less than, and much more.
 
** SHAREWARE **


2797A KLONDIKE AGA (A1200/4000 ONLY)
A fantastic 256 colour version of Klondike (or Patience as most people
call it), given a highly favourable in Amiga Format recently. This
card game is easy to get into but a complete bugger to finish. 3
different skill levels, a very nice soundtrack, customisable cards.


2797B KLONDIKE AGA
Part 2 of KLONDIKE AGA


2797C KLONDIKE AGA
Part 3 of KLONDIKE AGA


2798 MIND WARP (DEMO) (AGA ONLY)
Another AGA only production from Team Hois - the only real advantages
of AGA being a few 256 colour schwings and roundabouts. The rest could
be done on an A500.


2799A HEADING FOR HOME
This 4 disk raytraced animation is only around 10 seconds long.  A lot
of people wouldnt give it the time of day, but take a look at the
amount of time and effort gone into it and it is quite good.
Basically it is a spaceship flying to his home (a space station)
detoring around a couple of planets and then docking.  On a fast
machine, it shifts. (3 MEGS of RAM required)


2799B HEADING FOR HOME
Part 2 of HEADING FOR HOME


2799C HEADING FOR HOME
Part 3 of HEADING FOR HOME


2799D HEADING FOR HOME
Part 4 of HEADING FOR HOME


2800 KLAWZ THE CAT 
A fairly bog-standard platform game here featuring the one and only
Klawz the Cat. Run around collecting thinks and killing other things.
 
<Third party on, dudes>


2801 GNU CHESS (KS2+)
There aren't many chess games knocking around in PD and this is
certainately one of the best.  Designed for WB 2 you can play against
the computer or another person or just watch the computer play against
itself.  Sourcecode included.


2802 PHOTOGRAPHY - THE DARK ROOM
Think you're a bit of a Lord Lichfield, eh?  Well with this disk it
shows exactly how to get the best results from your old 5 quid Kodak.
Only 2 stages are present on this disk but if you send off for the
registered version you will get a two disk set covering everything
you could possibly think of to do with photography.  Illustrations
and digitized piccys are included.  **SHAREWARE**


2803 BEETLE
An EXCELLENT platform game for young kids and old gits as well.  You
play the role of Beetle and have to go negotiate your way around the
garden, picking up the worms and vegetables and avoiding the nasty
axes, fire and water.  When you've collected everything you then
teleport to the next level.  The good thing about this is that the
levels change each time you play.  BRILLIANT.  **SHAREWARE**


2804 KENS CHRISTMAS CLIPART
Yes folks, KUMFY KEN <'El Squeaky'> brings you a disk of festive
frivolous clipart.  If you're looking for small detailed stuff then
you can forget this.  Nearly all of the clips are massive 2 screens
high jobs covering everything in common with the season of goodwill.


2805 IMAGINE TEXTURE MAPS
This disk contains 36 320x200 JPEG stone texture maps for any
rendering package.  They will work fine with the coverdisk version of
Imagine.


2806 IMAGINE BITS & BATS
This disk contains 11 320x200 JPEG wood texture maps for any rendering
package.  They will work fine with the coverdisk version of Imagine.
The disk also contains a full 1600 line manual on using Imagine
properly and also a 1.24 MB object of the Starship Enterprise which
requires 11 MB ram to render!


2807 IMAGINE OBJECTS
This disk contains around 6 objects to render in Imagine including
Surfboards, Shark, Sandal, Stingray & others.  Also on here are 2
Starship Enterprise objects for Real 3D V2.0


2808 IMAGINE OBJECTS
Only 2 very large objects on here for Imagine.  A 57 Chevrolet car and
some Robots.  They will work fine with the coverdisk version of
Imagine.


2809 IMAGINE OBJECTS
This disk contains a full index with pictures of all the Imagine
textures disks and also 5 more objects to use with Imagine including
Violin Case, Tommy Gun & Lamp amongst others.


2810A HOLODECK SLIDESHOW (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
From the makers of The Final Frontier Disk Mag comes this amazing
collection of Real 3D rendered objects all to do with Star Trek stuff.
Enterprise and whatever else you'd associate with the cult series is
here.


2810B HOLODECK SLIDESHOW (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Disk 2 of HOLODECK SLIDESHOW


2811 NEMESIS 
Another superb, colourful and quite clever version of Othello/Reversi.
You know the game.  If ya like it buy it.  If ya don't, don't.


2812A DOCTOR WHO : THE SIXTIES
All you will ever need to know about Dr Who


2812B DOCTOR WHO : THE SIXTIES
Disk 2 of DOCTOR WHO : THE SIXTIES


2813 DSOLVE CROSSWORD
A crossword solver for all you anagram addicts.


2814 PROFESSIONAL BINGO
A bingo caller.  <Well, what did you expect?>


2815 REORG V3.11
The best optimizing PD program there is.  Supports hard and floppy
drives.  If you cant afford QBT then this will speed up all your
disks by REORG(anizing) them.  Excellent stuff.


2816 SFX SERIES #1
A 5 disk extravaganza of sound effects for anyone contemplating making
animations, or DTV work.  Hundreds of effects ranging from animals,
transport, movies, and stacks of other stuff.


2817 SFX SERIES #2
See 2816 for details.


2818 SFX SERIES #3
See 2816 for details.


2819 SFX SERIES #4
See 2816 for details.


2820 SFX SERIES #5
See 2816 for details.


2821 IMAGINE OBJECTS
This disk contains 29 320x200 JPEG miscellaneous and 10 organic
texture maps for use with any rendering packages.  They will work fine
with the coverdisk version of Imagine.


2822 IMAGINE OBJECTS
This disk contains 37 320X200 JPEG stone texture maps for use with any
rendering packages.  They will work fine with the coverdisk version of
Imagine.


2823 NO SAMPLER UTILS VOL.2
Various music and sample utilities on here.


2824 AMY PD REVIEW #5
All the way from the land of OZ comes this mini mag reviewing the
latest (?) of whats new on the PD scene.  A good source of information
for you new users out there if you find our cat disks a bit much to
swallow.


2825A BODYSHOP 4 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Practical advice on how to repair minor dings and dents in your car.


2825B BODYSHOP 4 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Disk 2 of BODYSHOP 4


2826 PANTERHEI DEMO (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
An excellent addition to any AGA owners massive (sarcastic) demo
collection.  Loads of swirly bits and bobs, and AGA effects to
impress that PC owner you hate.


2827 HOLMES BROTHERS COMP
Various bits and bobs on this disk.  Degrader, Turbo Mandelbrot,
Numpad, Jump N Roll, Virus Checker V6.28, LHA, UnARJ, Biorhythm,
ChequeBook, SysInfo, Agraph, Amoeba Invaders, PictSaver, PyroBlanker
and various games cheats as well.


2828 FONT-X PRO
A 16 colour font editor and designer for AMOS.
**SHAREWARE**


2829A CD32 REVIEW
An excellently humorous animation featuring the Star Trek crew
examining what the think is an unidentified object on their scanners.
Sampled speech all the way through and it lasts for quite some time.
**2 DRIVES RECOMMENDED**


2829B CD32 REVIEW
Disk 2 of CD32 REVIEW


2830 MAP STATION
A utility for all you coders corner type people.  It allows you to
easily map any part of the screen at any time for when you are coding
your next big release.


2831 MUSIC EXAMPLES #1
12 good tunes on here by Nigel Smith.


2832 MUSIC EXAMPLES #2
11 more good tunes by Nigel Smith.


2833 BLACKBOARD
BlackBoard is an image proccessor written specifically for the AGA
chipset machines.  BlackBoard can load in pictures.  It can
manipulate them in a variety of ways, and then it can display them in
a number of different display modes as well as saving the picture to
disk.  There are loads of different functions, including Emboss,
DoubleorHalf, EdgeEnhancer, SmoothFilter, and loads loads more.


2834 FRIENDS OF PAULA #4 - SIMPLY BLUE
The latest musical creations from the masters of Octamed.  A few tunes
on here done in various different styles, but all are associated with
jazz music in same way.


2835 HANDEL - FIREWORKS
Rob Baxter, the master of Amiga classical music appers with Handels
Fireworks.  Always popular with our userbase.  The music is excellent
and the GUI is very nicely done as well.


2836 AURAL ILLUSION JNR
Soundman Jnr revamped, rewritten, remixed, re-everything really.  A 16
bit sample manipulator which allows you to stretch, echo, and
generally make yer silly farty noises which youve just sampled sound
much more fun.


2837 OPERATION FIRESTORM
From the makers of Wibble Word Giddy, comes probably the best PD game
ever seen.  Based on The Edges `Fireforce', it is very similar and
takes a few ideas from Green Beret.  Basic walking, shooting action
but the gfx and sound are excellent.  Please note, this is a demo
version and requires 5 pounds sending off to the author for the full
version.  Well worth it though.  **SHAREWARE**


2838 ORK ATTACK GAME
A very strange game this one, the object is to stop the orks climbing
up the wall by chucking stuff on their heads.  Fast and furious.


2839 SILICON JOURNAL
A diary program.


2840 GAMES GALORE REMIX 1
Mr H is back with his popular Games Galore packs, but this time they
are all revamped so that ALL the games are guaranteed to work on an
A1200.  Games on here include Tron, M-Command, Drip, Dominoes and
loads of others.


2841 GAMES GALORE REMIX 2
Asteroids, Spades, World, Car, Orbit 3D and a host of others on this
one.


2842 GAMES GALORE REMIX 3
Warriors, H-Ball, Jumpy, Rubik, Othello, amongst others.


2843 GAMES GALORE REMIX 4
Parachute, Cardsharp, Montana, Deluxe Pacman, Welltrix + others adorn
this one.


2844 GAMES GALORE REMIX 5
Word Search, Zeus, Monopoly, Bouncer, Larn, &tc.


2845 GAMES GALORE REMIX 6
Bally, ATC, Miniblast, Microbes, Tank Attack, &tc.


2846 GAMES GALORE REMIX 7
Death, Mutants, Egyptian Run, Chess, SYS, &tc.


2847 GAMES GALORE REMIX 8
Backgammon, Diplomacy, Chess, Train Set, Klondike &tc.


2848 GAMES GALORE REMIX 9
Battlecars, Dragon Tiles, Mines, Mr Wobbly, Subattack, Trek Trivia
&tc.


2849 GAMES GALORE REMIX 10
Match patch, Revenge, Cosmo, Amigatration, X-Fire, Bounce, Minefield
&tc..


2850 GORF (NOSTALGIA ALERT)
The game that revolutionized arcades is here.  The second most
classic shootemup ever.  The first arcade to feature speech.  it only
said `GORF' but people went nuts over it.  Shoot the invaders.  Thats
it.  Highly addictive and its written brilliantly.


2851 DTP FOR KIDS
A very basic DTP program for small kids.  It still allows for
importing IFF clipart and there is a range of fonts to choose from.
Every time the mouse is clicked, a different noise is heard.  Good
gear!!


2852 DEATH WALK ANIM
Very, very sick.  Not recommended for the very young.  An interesting
animation of a man who commits suicide while a crowd watch.  First he
blows his head off and then...
 
**1.5 MB REQUIRED**


2853 SUICIDE MAN 2
Suicide Man is back again in yet another sick anim.  This time he
resorts to scaling a cliff and then blowing his head off much to the
amusement of the watching audience.  Not recommended for children.
**1.5 MB REQUIRED**


2854 LEMMINGS SHOW
In the prequel to Death Walk, suicide man is here again.  Excellent
animation, consisting of suicide man, some lemmings, and a chain saw.
Very very sick. **1.5 MB REQUIRED**


2855 GARDEN DESIGNER
LandScape is a sort of poor-mans CAD (Computer Aided Design) program
that allows you to design (landscape) a garden.  It consists of two
parts:  a design module, where you lay out the design of your garden
(using a small selection of plants, and other garden objects), and a
drawing module, which takes the design, and draws a stylised 3D
version from any viewpoint of what the garden would look like in real
life.


2857 ASSASINS A1200 FIXES (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Got some games that won't work on the all singing, all dancing wonder
machines.  Then this disk will probably get them working for ya.
Proggys on here include A1200 Run, Kill AGA, Degrader, Runit,
Fakemem, Fakefast and a star studded line up of others.


2858 ASASSINS MULTI-VISION TOOLS
BitPlane Convertor, IFF Converter 0.9, IFF Converter 2.14, IFF
Converter 3.41, Kefrens IFF Converter, IFF2Brush, IFF2Exe, Pallet
Converter, Translater, MenuMaster, MenuWriter V1.0, PowerBoot,
PowerMenu, RainbowWriter, SpriteMaster, SpriteMover, TextPaint, 3rd
Day GFX Ripper, BouncePic, GFXSearcher, IFF PictureCruncher,
ObjectMaster, PictureClose, PictureShow, SetPicture, ShowCruncherIFF,
SuperView, RainbowEffects, StarfieldEditor, StarEffects, ScrollMaker
1.2, Setkey V2, TextEditor, ULTBootWriter and ZoomWindows.


2859 BODYSHOP 3 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Pranged your front end? This one's guaranteed to sort it out.


2860 ASSASINS AUDIO MAGIC 3
Protracker 2.3, Soundtracker, DSound V1.00, LongPlay V1.0c, NTRipper,
MultiPlayer V1.17, PowerPlayer V2.7, SmartPlay V2.0, SoundStudio,
ProRipper V2.0 and a couple of samples.


2861 ASSASINS AUDIO MAGIC 4
Protracker 3.00b, PSTTracker V1.1b, ActionRipper, ParaTracker 1.12 and
ExoticRipper.


2862A FIT CHICKS 3 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
In no way whatsoever is this a sequel to Fit Chicks 2 <which we had to
ditch> or 1.  No, really.  You'd be amazed.  Or something.


2862B FIT CHICKS 3 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Disk 2 of FIT CHICKS 3


2863A BODYSHOP 5 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Guaranteed to grease your axle. Originally described as:
 
"Aaaaarghhhh.  More of em.  Women women women.  Yes we love em dont
we fellas.  Pity Jermaine Greer doesnt share the same atitude.  You
may ask who Jermaine Greer is.  Ever watched After Dark on C4.  Women
are equal and all that crap.  You know the score fellas.  Women have
babies and wash up.  Thats it, end of story."
                                              <Hmmmmm. Yeah, right.>


2863B BODYSHOP 5 (AGA MACHINES ONLY)
Disk 2 of BODYSHOP 5


2871A DANGEROUS SPORTS CLUB ANIMATION
An anim about some silly men jumping out of a plane and getting caught
up with a pigeon.


2871B DANGEROUS SPORTS CLUB ANIMATION
Disk 2 of DANGEROUS SPORTS CLUB ANIMATION


2872A MEAN CD MACHINE ANIMATION
From the author of Last Stand On Hoth.  This equals, if not betters,
his last effort.  Comparing the Mega CD, CD-i and CD32 and promoting
them as racing cars, each with its own features and drawbacks.


2872B MEAN CD MACHINE ANIMATION
Disk 2 of MEAN CD MACHINES


2872C MEAN CD MACHINE ANIMATION
Disk 3 of MEAN CD MACHINES


2872D MEAN CD MACHINE ANIMATION
Disk 4 of MEAN CD MACHINES


2873 ASTRONOMY V2.1
Astronomy V2.1 is a menu driven astronomy program which calculates
information about the Sun, Moon, Planets and constellations.


2875 CDTV TO CD32 KEYBOARD ADAPTOR (AGA ONLY)
This nifty little program will show you exactly how to convert the
little plug on the end of your CDTV keyboard so it will fit nice and
snug into the back of your all singing all dancing CD32.  We take no
responsibility for screw-ups - use at your own risk.


2876A GRAPEVINE 18
You all know what this one is.


2876B GRAPEVINE 18
Disk 2 of GRAPEVINE 18


2876C GRAPEVINE 18
Disk 3 of GRAPEVINE 18


2879 HELIOPOLIS DEMO
Another demo with flashy music and graphics.  There arent many new
different things to write any more.  If ya like em, buy it.  If not,
dont.


2880 HYPNOSIS DEMO BY PERSPEX
An excellent demo in a similar vein to State Of The Art.  Hard techno
background track with some dancing girlies (and things) You know the
score.  Spacious!


2881 BLUE ROSE FONTS 1
Loads and loads of high quality Cut & Paste fonts for you to use in
your favourite art package <eg DPAINT>


2882 BLUE ROSE FONTS 2
Loads and loads of high quality Cut & Paste fonts for you to use in
your favourite art package <eg DPAINT>


2883 BLUE ROSE FONTS 3
Loads and loads of high quality Cut & Paste fonts for you to use in
your favourite art package <eg DPAINT>


2884 VIDEO WORKSHOP
This disk contains cut and paste fonts and graphics very suitable for
video work.  All the screens are in lo-res, Backgrounds are in
overscan.  Fonts, frames, maps and parts etc are saved as brushes,


2885 GROOVY DEMO BY LEMON
Another cracking demo from the masters of amiga coding techniques.
Lots of nice effects, a brilliant tune and the most amazing piece of
artwork at the beginning.  Fantastic!!


2886 AZSPELL V2.02
The best PD spellchecking program on the Amiga is back in its latest
form.  Now recognises over 22000 words.  Not a lot you might think,
But i bet you can think of very few words that it doesnt know.
(Unless youve got a BA in Sociology!!).  Also on here is AZConfig
giving the ability for the user to set up the speller with particular
preferences.  There are a couple of other AZ utils on here too.


2887 ONFORM V1.1
Onform is THE number one invoice/order printing program for the Amiga.
Items you can fill in are Company address, Tel No.  Fax No.  Vat No.
Customer address, Credit Card Details, etc etc.  An excellent business
utility for all you tycoons out there.  Also on here is Addressprint
V3.1 to allow you to print address labels easily.  **SHAREWARE**


2888 ADDRESSPRINT V4.0
Address print is by far the best label printing utility to be found in
the Public Domain.  It prints addresses and it does it damn well too.
What more could a person want.  **SHAREWARE**


2889 MELON ART SLIDESHOW
Around 15 superb quality pictures on this disk from some of the best
gfx'ers on the Amiga today.  From cartoon style to landscapes.  Load
them one at a time or run it as a slideshow.


2890 ANIMHELPER
From the producers of the Xmas Anim and others comes this disk of
beautifully drawn scenery, people, and brushes for use in animation
and/or video titling work


2891 TECHNO TRAX 2 (TROJAN AGA DEMO) (AGA ONLY)
Techno Techno Techno.  Only the one massive long thumping track on
here with some excellent plasma effects and flashy screens guarenteed
to get all you epileptics out there bouncing off the walls.


2892 MAGNUM V1.8
Magnum is a utility that allows you to make disk magazines with ease.
It uses a system that has been tried, tested, and is now used with the
majority of disk magazines.  It follows the style of Raw, Grapevine,
Deadlock, Hexagone, Upstream, Jungle, Zine, Freedom Crack, etc.  Of
course, using this program doesn`t replace your own coded versions,
but if you don`t know how to code, or haven't got the time and want to
produce a professional looking disk magazine, then Magnum is all
you`ll probably need.  Articles can be typed as normal ASCII text.


2893 SCALA BACKGROUNDS 
All the way from Kumfy Ken in Surrey, come this disk of hi-res
overscan fractal generated backdrops for you to use in SCALA.  They
will work in any IFF supported program but whos to know.  Excellent
they are too.  A good effect i have found is to load them into DPAINT
and hit the TAB key.


2894 SCALA BACKGROUNDS 2
All the way from Kumfy Ken in Surrey, come this disk of hi-res
overscan fractal generated backdrops for you to use in SCALA.  They
will work in any IFF supported program but whos to know.  Excellent
they are too.  A good effect i have found is to load them into DPAINT
and hit the TAB key.


2895 JETSTRIKE DEMO
This demo is just a 10 level sample of the full Jetstrike game.  The
full version of Jetstrike contains:  Over 100 different missions, 40
different aircraft, 40 weapons systems, Auto enhancement for systems
with more memory, Hard disk installation, Fully compatible with all
Amigas (automatically resizes for NTSC and PAL displays).  Mission
disks to be released in 1994 to add further missions, aircraft and
weapons.


2897 GIF BEAUTIES 1 (AGA ONLY)
The following 10 disks including this one all contain some of the
sexiest women on the planet in various states of undress and all in
stunning 256 colours guarenteed to show off that fabulous AGA machine
you've just bought.


2898 GIF BEAUTIES 2 (AGA ONLY)
 


2899 GIF BEAUTIES 3 (AGA ONLY)
 


2900 GIF BEAUTIES 4 (AGA ONLY)
 


2901 GIF BEAUTIES 5 (AGA ONLY)
 


2902 GIF BEAUTIES 6 (AGA ONLY)
 


2903 GIF BEAUTIES 7 (AGA ONLY)
 


2904 GIF BEAUTIES 8 (AGA ONLY)
 


2905 GIF BEAUTIES 9 (AGA ONLY)
 


2906 GIF BEAUTIES 10 (AGA ONLY)
 


2907 PRO PAGE V2.1 HELP DISK
This disk contains a large help file which can be read with the aid of
the included Hyperbook program.  There is also more information about
the installation of the program on a hard disk.  This is for
ProfessionalPage version 2.1 but no doubt will of some use for the
other versions as well.


2908 PRO PAGE TEMPLATES
8 templates on here including cassette sleeves, diskbox dividers,
video spines, video ends etc etc.  There are also a stack of genies on
here as well including bar graphs, pie charts, borders frames, margins
all round, booklet, and many many more.


2909 VERB TESTER V1.1
This is a verb tester for anyone mad enough to try there hand at
learning French.  The tester has only a small selection of verbs.
(Only five are included on this disk) The program automatically
corrects you if your answer is incorrect, so you can learn the correct
answer.  If you register with the author then a whole stack of verbs
are at your disposal.  Good G.C.S.E learning aid.  **SHAREWARE**


2910 SOLDERING DISK
The soldering disk is a disk that helps you to create circuit board
diagrams and vero-board layouts.  There are loads of components on
this disk which are saved as brushes so you MUST have a paint package
i.e.  DPAINT to use them with.  Different size vero-board brushes are
also included on this disk.


2911 PAY ADVICE ANALYSER V4
This program is ideal for keeping a record of your wage details on
your computer.  It will allow you to keep a regular check on your
wages and how much tax your paying to make sure that the taxman, or
worse still, your employer isnt fiddling you.  **SHAREWARE**


2912 RADBENCH V1.7
Radbench is a workbench replacement disk with a difference.  Once the
program is installed, whenever you do a soft reset on your machine,
workbench will load in around 5-6 seconds.!!!  Just like having a
miniature hard drive on your machine.  All versions of workbench are
supported.  It is fairly memory intensive though so anyone with less
then 2MB should think twice before buying this disk.  There are also
stacks of utilitys on here as well including DCOPY, DASHBOARD, PLASMA
256 etc etc.  **SHAREWARE**


2913 PANACEA TYMPANIC MEMBRANE
Only 4 mods on this one. Not bad


2914 MINIMORPH V1.0
MiniMorph is a program that will allow you to create smooth
morphs/warps between two different images over a period of frames to
create an animation.  **SHAREWARE**


2915 A TASTE OF U4IA
Music disk from MegaWatts. 


2916A TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN (AGA ONLY)
A collection of 11, 256 colour pictures for the AGA based machines all
centering around the theme of the egyptian kings, the pyramids and
lost treasure.  The picture quality is absolutely stunning.


2916B TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN


2917 COMIC ART 3
Roughly 10 high quality pictures on here all based on your favourite
comic book characters.  Included on here are Batman, Predator, Silver
Surfer, Wolverine, X-Force and a few others.


2918 EMPTY HEAD AGA DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Nice demo beginning with a huge 3D vector object with a UFO type
thingy to light source it.  B-splines, Multiple dot tunnels.  Realtime
picture rotation, 1 pixel plasma and some 10 million dot objects as
well.


2919A SPACEBALLS 9 FINGERS DEMO
The follow up to State Of The Art.  Instead of just coded dancing
characters, this time, Spaceballs have gone one better.  Using
digitized dancing characters and overlaying them with polygons, it
gives an absolutely stunning effect.  Get this and put your mates
consoles to shame.  Backed with a brilliant techno tune.


2919B SPACEBALLS 9 FINGERS DEMO
Disk 2 of 9 FINGERS


2920 ASSASSINS BACK TO SCHOOL 3
The third educational compilation from the Assassins as arrived.3
programs on here, REFLEX TEST (Maths Skills) AMOS TREASURE SEARCH
(Maze learning game) TYPE OR DIE (Typing Tutor).  Have fun.


2921 PARBENCH
This program will set parnet up between two machines which you have
linked up without lifting a finger (or not much anyway!!).  Very easy
to use and saves hours of hassle and frustration.


2922A CHARLEY THE CAT 2 (DOWN AT THE SEA)
The second outing for our good friend Charley the Cat.  This time,
Charley has decided to spend a nice quiet (?) day at the beach
(durrr!).  Nothing unusual about that, except that his girlfriend
Alyson is there sunning herself.  Unfortunately for him, so is his
arch-enemy Tiger who starts making trouble for him again.  A fantastic
animation!!  Just like Scwartz.  **2 MB REQUIRED**


2922B CHARLEY THE CAT 2 (DOWN AT THE SEA)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 2


2923A CHARLEY THE CAT 6 (AT THE FLIX)
In Charleys latest escapade he decides to take a trip to the cinema.
Great graphics and sound make this a brilliant animation to watch.
Anthony Whitaker (the author) just gets better and better.  **2 MB
REQUIRED**


2923B CHARLEY THE CAT 6 (AT THE FLIX)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 6


2924 EXCELLENT CARDS & MANCALA
Excellent cards is a compilation of 5 new card games from Tower
Software.  Yukon, Black Maria, Frustration, Stonewall and Baroness.
Mancala is reputed to be the oldest game in the world.  According to
the docs, it involves moving stones round a pit or something.  If
youve played the game youll know exactly what im talking about.  If
you havent, Tough. **SHAREWARE**


2925A CHARLEY THE CAT 3 (HOW TO CATCH A CANARY)
Strange, the third anim in the series coming after the sixth.  Thats
because we at 17 Bit are all escaped loonys and like to do things the
wrong way round.  In this brilliant animation, Charley has decided to
stay at home and have a go at catching his owner's new pet canary.
But does he catch it?  Well, you'll have to check this cartoon out in
order to find out.  **3 MB REQUIRED**


2925B CHARLEY THE CAT 3 (HOW TO CATCH A CANARY)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 3


2925C CHARLEY THE CAT 3 (HOW TO CATCH A CANARY)
Disk 3 of CHARLEY THE CAT 3


2926A TOME OF MYTHS
This is a hypertext type application that outlines the characters and
stories that make up common legends.  The complete book is divided
into two sections; 'Classical' - covering the Greek and Roman myths,
and 'Tolkien & Folklore' - covering more modern myths.  The book
employs an easy to use icon based navigation system as well as full
online help.  **SHAREWARE**


2926B TOME OF MYTHS
Disk 2 of TOME OF MYTHS


2927A CHARLEY THE CAT 4 (MOUSTERMIND)
Another great cartoon style anim from Anthony Whitaker.  This is the
fourth episode of the adventures of Charley.  In this escapade,
Charleys house has become infested with mice.  Will he succeed?
**3.5 MB REQUIRED**


2927B CHARLEY THE CAT 4 (MOUSTERMIND)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 4


2927C CHARLEY THE CAT 4 (MOUSTERMIND)
Disk 3 of CHARLEY THE CAT 4


2927D CHARLEY THE CAT 4 (MOUSTERMIND)
Disk 4 of CHARLEY THE CAT 4


2928 THE DESIGNER V2.12
The Designer is a unique program for creating background graphics and
level maps for games.By using The Designer, and any paint program, you
will be able to design backgrounds and level maps quickly, easily and
effectively, making the task in hand a lot more enjoyable.
**SHAREWARE**


2929 VIVID:ABSTRAX PIG DEMO (AGA ONLY)
The guys who wrote this seem to be obsessed by real perspective 3D
calculated dots.  Thats just about all this demo has in it.  There are
some fast rendered colour-cycled mandelbrots and a 256 colour picture
of a tropical fish tank with some animated fish.  An excellent module
plays along in the background but there is no groundbreaking stuff to
be found here.


2930 XANADU:EXPLICIT II AGA DEMO (AGA ONLY)
A so-so tunnel effect gets the ball rolling, then onto a scaled
rolling box (whoopee) followed by a split 3D vector cube (a 3 year
old routine?) and finally a duff picture with realtime rotation which
looks awful.


2931A SYNTEX:SCAN IS LAME SLIDESHOW (AGA ONLY)
This is more like it.  The best quality, most professionally put
together slideshow since Revelations.  2 disks containing 7, 256
colour pictures in Hi-Res with the most amazing quality imaginable.
If you own a 1200/4000 then you must get this slideshow.  A brilliant
Robosaur and 2 women are just some of the pictures found on here.
Awesome.  N.B There's a bit of nudity on here, but nothing too
offensive to the weaker sex.


2931B SYNTEX:SCAN IS LAME SLIDESHOW (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of SYNTEX:SCAN IS LAME


2932 ARISE:SMELLS LIKE CHANEL NO.5 DEMO (AGA)
But according to 'Stuart the plophead', its the best AGA demo ever.


2933A COMPLEX:ORIGIN DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Starting off with a superb Oddysey-esque intro which is raytraced and
some stunning realtime fractal landscapes.  The demo takes us on a
journey through the eyes of an excellently created 3D vector ED-209
lookalike around a vector world before jumping down a chute and going
on a superfast tunnel effect ride.  Finishing the demo off is a nice
realtime rotated picture and a slightly crap Doom-esque world.  All
in all, excellent. <Won at The Party 1993, Aars, Denmark>


2933B COMPLEX:ORIGIN DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Dis 2 of COMPLEX:ORIGIN


2934 VOLCANO AGA DEMO (AGA ONLY)
This demo is weird.  It's got a startup-sequence but when you try and
boot it, it says it cant find any AGA chips.  It MUST be loaded
through workbench.  It's hard drive installable too.  The main
feature on here is a 256 colour volcano made up of over 10.000 dots.
Very nice.  A metal/dance track plays continuosly.  8 bitplane
bouncing balls, a nice raytrace piccy called Coders Lunch, some nice
dot fireworks and other plasma routines all go to make this a
reasonable AGA effort.


2935 CHANNEL Z ISSUE 1 (AGA ONLY)
The first magazine dedicated solely to the AGA based machines has
arrived.  Its not brilliant but it does contain some good articles
concerning CD32 and other AGA tales.  There are some utils on here too
including Sysinfo, Degrader amongst others and also an AGA intro.


2936 CHANNEL Z ISSUE 2 (AGA ONLY)
The second issue of Channel Z has arrived.  Few bits and bats on here
including Virus Checker, Ameko AGA, Boulderdash, Killaga and Dcopy +
some articles on various issues.


2937 AGA UTILITIES 1 (AGA ONLY)
A utils disk packed chock full with AGA stash.  On here are Rend 24,
PPshow, View, Viewtek, BestID, BBlank, ForceVGA, DoubleX, PKludge,
Amiga2NTSC, CycletoMenu, CheckAGA, Clouds and Gtest2.  Not bad for 2
quid eh.


2938 AGA UTILITIES 2 (AGA ONLY)
The second disk in the series contains Icon Illusion, Plasma,
Quickgrab and AGraphics.


2939 AGA UTILITIES 3 (AGA ONLY)
This time around it's A4091 patch, Alertimer, Clouds, HAM8-JPEG,
BestID, SMC, Plasma, Newpop4, PCX datatype, NTSC4NTSC and Patch
Pointer.


2941 NUANCE:SUBTLE SHADES DEMO
A reasonable but not mindblowing effort from Nuance.  The demo
consists of a number of parts featuring Balls, and the fastest double
multi-coloured dot tunnel yet seen.


2943 A1200/4000 UTILS (AGA ONLY)
Another utils disk.  (Coming thick and fast arent they???) On here are
CacheX, IntelOut, Plasma, Superduper V3, NewMenu2 and Arp.library 4.2.


2944 CARD GAMES PACKAGE
This disk contains versions of Solitaire, Aces Up, Golf, Tut's Tomb,
Cruel and FreeCell.  Solitaire is a version of Patience, Aces up is
something to do with moving Aces around.  And so on and so on.  If ya
like card games, youll love ALL these.  **SHAREWARE**


2945 DEPTHCHARGE
Depthcharge is a rough conversion of an old arcade game.  You control
a submarine destroyer and must destroy as many enemy submarines as
possible by dropping depthcharges on them.  The enemy subs use mines
and torpedos to try and destroy you.  If you can remember this then
you've got a good memory!


2946 SOCCER CARDS USA 94
This is an updated version to disk 2090.  Anybody who's played it
before will know what we've got here.  For the drongos out there, the
object is to turn cards over on the screen.  If you get a pair then
that option is executed, whether it be scoring a goal, getting a red
or yellow card, a good tackle or anything else really.  In a 2 player
game.  Players take an alternate turn in picking a card.  Sounds
difficult?  Naaah.


2947 DITHELL IN SPACE
An excellent arcade style platform/shooting game set in space.  A
cross between Jetpac and countless platform games, the object is
simple, shoot the nastys and collect the objects.  Brilliantly
presented, nice front end, gfx and sound make this a very worthwhile
purchase.  **SHAREWARE**


2948 DIGITAL:DREAM TRIPPIN DEMO
Not up to the usual standards that we have known Digital to produce
but still pretty good.  The intro is one of the best around though,
setting up your TV and adjusting volume, colour and brightness using
on-screen displays.  The demo includes a dot logo, dot flexi objects,
dot shapes, a superfast 3D zoom logo, some pencil vectors and a bunch
of other stuff.


2949 ICE RUNNER
Fantastic platform game bit like Dig Dug.  Collect the fruit whilst
avoiding the nastys, then dig holes in the ice and trap 'em.  Looks
amazing, doesn't sound too hot but boy does it play well.


2950 LEMON:RINK A DINK DEMO
Design over routines from the mainly-Core gang <Paradroid and Nuke,
with Facet scurrying around the back> - watch out for a great tunnel
effect near the end, though.


2951 PROCAD ELECTRONIC V1.0
ProCAD Electronic V1.0 is the latest release in circuit schematic
drawing and PCB design tools on the Amiga, and is probably one of the
easiest CAD packages to use so far.The program is mouse driven and
contains a large electronic symbols library as well as the capability
to load custom symbol libraries.  ProCAD also has a wide range of
drawing tools including stretchy pencil lines and shapes, 2 types of
stretchy PCB tracking pens, a solder pad tool with variable pad sizes
and a DPaint type zoom editor.  Support software is also available.


2952 XMAS TIME
A great festive platform game starring Fat Santa and the nasty
nastys.  <Yeees> The object of the game is to jump around the
platforms collecting a set number of presents while bopping the
baddies on the head with your big sack.  Loads of bright colour, good
music and sfx make this a very enjoyable platform romp.


2953 MATRIX BLASTER
The best version of Tron/Lightcycles around.  Put together
brilliantly, play against a friend or the computer.  There are four
different speed levels to play at as well.  Very very addictive.


2954 UNPLEASANT WAYS TO DIE
Black & White hand drawn slides.  They are very well drawn but they
just aren't funny.  According to Rob at 17-Bit, anyway.  Make your
own mind up.


2955 JPM'S AGA PICS #5 (AGA ONLY)
6 JPEG pictures for all you AGA owners out there.  All based around
fantasy/Vallejio type artwork.  Very good quality but after all they
are only slideshows.!!!!!


2956 JPM'S AGA PICS #6 (AGA ONLY)
6 JPEG pictures for all you AGA owners out there.  All based around
fantasy/Vallejio type artwork.  Very good quality but after all they
are only slideshows.!!!!!


2957 JPM'S AGA PICS #7 (AGA ONLY)
8 JPEG pictures for all you AGA owners out there.  All based around
fantasy/Vallejio type artwork.  Very good quality but after all they
are only slideshows.!!!!!  (4 Boris pics on here too).


2958 JPM'S AGA PICS #8 (AGA ONLY)
10 JPEG pictures for all you AGA owners out there.  All based around
Dungeons & Dragons type artwork.  Very good quality but after all they
are only slideshows.!!!!!


2959 JPM'S AGA PICS #9 (AGA ONLY)
13 JPEG pictures for all you AGA owners out there.  All based around
Dungeons & Dragons type artwork.  Very good quality but after all they
are only slideshows.!!!!!  Theres also one of Winona Ryder sneaked on
here too.


2960 ZONE WARRIORS MUSIC DISK
5 techno tracks.  Bass in yer face.  Watch yer bass bins.  Hardcore,
You know the score.  They aren't the names of the tracks, just some
crap associated with techno music.


2961A JIGSAW
This is a rock hard jigsaw puzzle type game.  The computer will mix
the picture up and you have to put the pieces back together
(OBVIOUSLY).  There is one snag though, all the pieces can be rotated
4 ways thus making the game slightly more difficult.  The mags have
given it some rave reviews.  An excellent game.  A few pictures on
here as well.  **SHAREWARE**


2961B JIGSAW
Disk 2 of JIGSAW


2962 FORECASTER
Forcaster is a Horse Racing prediction program which uses statistical
analysis of major factors including course/distance winner, past form
weight, age, going etc, of a given race and uses data stored to
evaluate each horses 'score'.Your own unique 'system' can be created
by adjusting the analysis formulae under the 'customize' selection
and providing a name for your formulae. <Call it Wayne>


2963 BRAIN DAMAGE
Brain Damage is a puzzle game where the aim is to arrange a given set
of pictures into a specified pattern on an 8*8 picture grid.  The
pictures are given to you in an initial pattern which you must
transform into the specified pattern within a given number of moves
and within a given time limit.  The only way to move a picture on the
grid is to shift the entire row or column that it's in.  The pictures
may further be rotated, reproduced or destroyed using `active
pictures'.


2964 MAD FIGHTERS 1200 (AGA ONLY)
Dire Street Fighter 2 clone.  Woooooo.  O.


2965 NEOPLASIA PHOBIA MUSIC DISK
5 tracks on here including Stairway to Heaven.  Not the best ever
music disk but if you are a collector then here it is.


2966 KIDS DISK 3
An excellent Multimedia presentation tool for kids (and parents too!)
Make your own crosswords, wordsearch, dot2dot, comics, books,
pictures and virtually anything to keep the kids happy for a while.
This is a Shareware version and some features are disabled.  Cost to
register is 2.50 **SHAREWARE**


2967 SMARTYPAINTS
Smartypaints is a `serious' art package for your kids with useable
and interesting facilities, and is very appealing to children of all
ages / abilities.  No hidden drop downs or sub menus to mess with, so
your child can see what they have selected all the time.  There are a
series of `lockable' options so you can deny access to any options.
Loads of options make this program rival DPaint for features.


2968 SANITY:ARTE DEMO
Usual high quality demo from Sanity.  Loads and loads of different
routines including 2 Super fast tunnel effects, loads of nice
pictures and logos, realtime picture rotation, bouncing balls,
texture mapped balls, swirly bits and squares and a nice vector shape
ending.  Goes on for ages.  Excellent.  <Second at The Party '93,
Aars, behind Origin. Superb timing with the music>


2969 MEGABALL AGA (AGA ONLY)
The old classic bat & ball game now done in a myriad of luverly
colours.


2970A CHARLEY THE CAT 8 (DANDRUFF DUO)
Yet more amazing quality stuff from Mr Whitaker featuring yet again,
Charley Cat.  In this, his latest adventure, Charley has got the
dreaded dandruff.  He tries to get rid of the dreadful stuff, but does
he succeed?  Watch the cartoon and find out.  This animated feature
requires 3.5Mb to run, and extra drives are definitely recommended,
though not essential.


2970B CHARLEY THE CAT 8 (DANDRUFF DUO)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 8


2970C CHARLEY THE CAT 8 (DANDRUFF DUO)
Disk 3 of CHARLEY THE CAT 8


2970D CHARLEY THE CAT 8 (DANDRUFF DUO)
Disk 4 of CHARLEY THE CAT 8


2971 RELOKICK V1.4
One of our best selling disks of all time is now here in its latest
form.  The only major differences here are for AGA owners.  With the
old KICK 1.3, some games still refused to run because you couldnt
disable the CPU Caches.  WELL NOW YOU CAN.  There is a difference for
ANYBODY with an ECS based machine.  You can now switch between PAL &
NTSC.


2972A TOTAL IRRELEVANCE 4
T.I is back with issue 4 which includes a nice shiny new menu.  Coming
on 2 disks, the second disk contains the best MUG modules of the year
whilst the first disk covers articles on a whole host of music related
subjects.This issue contains the last part of the "Commands" tutorial
and part three of the "NoSampler?" trilogy.  Also there is a tutorial
on V4's sample editor and an AREXX article..There's the second
installment of the Raven's life-story in "Memoirs II" and the usuals
ModSpot, The Bureau, etc.  etc.


2972B TOTAL IRRELEVANCE 4
Disk 2 of TOTAL IRRELEVANCE 4


2973 RAGE:NEURAL ASSAULT DEMO
A demo given rave reviews in one of the mags.  An excellent cinema
style intro sequence opens this demo and then it takes you on a
rollercoaster ride through a host of different routines including a
brilliant 3d spinning vector A1200 with monitor.  A nice technoesque
tune plays in the background.


2974A G.I SPY
The guy who created Charley the Cat is back with his latest
animation.  This particular one is a more serious story, and features
a spy named Gerald Ingham and his arch-enemy Sly Silvo.  This cartoon
requires 3Mb of RAM to run.  2 drives recommended, unless you're a
masochist.


2974B G.I SPY
Disk 2 of G.I SPY


2975A CHANNEL Z ISSUE 3
ART AND ANIMATION SPECIAL!!!  The latest issue of the magazine
dedicated to the AGA based machines featuring utilities including
Huge, Cyclops, Landbuild and Lyapunovia + a couple of others.
Articles on here include Drawing with DPaint, Animating with DPaint
plus theres some nice AGA pics, some anims and some lovely modules.


2975B CHANNEL Z ISSUE 3
Disk 2 of CHANNEL Z ISSUE 3


2976A HOLODECK 2 (AGA ONLY)
Yet again, the creators of The Final Frontier bring to you another
collection of trekky based piccys.  21 altogether all rendered in Real
3D V2 (I think) with not a scrap of digitizing in sight.  Excellent
quality as usual from the Sulu supporters club.


2976B HOLODECK 2 (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of HOLODECK 2


2978 ASSASSINS VIDEO TITLERS
5 utils on here all designed to help you with your titling/genlock
work.  Inscript, Videomanager, ATS, Jacosub and S_Movie.


2979 FONT FARM 4
A whacking great 50 new fonts on here to use in Dpaint or any Word
Processor / Paint Package / DTP that takes bitmaps.  Sent in by the
one and only Gary Henderson.


2980 FONT FARM 5
Another disk chock full with yet another 50 bitmapped fonts to use in
your favourite package.  Yet again, thrown together by G.H.


2981 YATCY
Yatcy a game of Dice for 1 to 4 players.  Each player must roll the
dice and depending on the outcome reroll any of the five dice upto two
more times.  Then the player must decide which empty box on His/Her
scorecard they wish the rolls to count for.  Players take it in turns
when playing to roll for a score box.  Written, produced and directed
by the man himself.


2982A A CHARLEY CAT CHRISTMAS
This is just pure Christmas-related slapstick - and perhaps touching
too.  There isnt really a plot, but it reaches the usual high
standards of A.W.  This animated cartoon requires 2Mb of memory to
run, and an external drive or hard drive is certainly worth using to
minimize on disk-swapping.


2982B A CHARLEY CAT CHRISTMAS
Disk 2 of A CHARLEY CAT CHRISTMAS


2982C A CHARLEY CAT CHRISTMAS
Disk 3 of A CHARLEY CAT CHRISTMAS


2983A CHARLEY CAT 7 (IN SICKNESS AND IN HEALTH)
In this animation, Charley has caught a cold, and Jarrod (his owner)
insists that he sees the vet.  But it's there that the problems
start...  That's all you get to know.  The anim requires 3MB of RAM
and it is essential that you have an external or hard drive.


2983B CHARLEY CAT 7 (IN SICKNESS AND IN HEALTH)
Disk 2 of CHARLEY THE CAT 7


2983C CHARLEY CAT 7 (IN SICKNESS AND IN HEALTH)
Disk 3 of CHARLEY THE CAT 7


2984 A TO Z PAINT PAD
This program was written in Amos Professional and it looks absolutely
stunning.  Professional is an understatement.  Basically it's a
colouring pad for kids showing the letters of the alphabet one at a
time with a different picture to colour in for each.  Brilliant
package for kids aged 3-6.


2985 THE ULTIMATE QUIZ VOL.1
Excellent pub-style quiz machine.  This is a shareware version and
only 100 general knowledge questions are available to you.  On
registering there are around 500 questions on a whole range of
different subjects including TV.  Nicely put together


2986 NO SAMPLER UTILS? 3
The latest disk from the Med User Group guys contains the most
excellent PD sampling software ever, `Supersound'.  Also on here is a
sample maker type program called Wondersound, A realtime effects
generator and a host of other goodys for you.


2987  MAG E ISSUE 1
Mag E is a disk mag dedicated to Fantasy and Science Fiction articles.
There is tons of stuff to read on here for anyone remotely interested
in the above subjects.  22 articles on Dr Who, 14 Fantasy articles and
11 Sci-Fi articles fill this disk to the brim.


2988 CREATE ADVENTURE GAMES V3.1
CREATE ADVENTURE GAMES (or CAG for short) is a program made to allow
the creation of adventure games.  CAG can use samples, med, noise,
and soundtracker mods and also AMOS music banks, IFF pictures,
compressed or uncompressed.  Coloured text (Upto 8 colours) The
ability to create 65536 rooms/messages, 256 objects, bobs & icons,
AND it can also use IFF animations.   **SHAREWARE**


2989 WAYNES WORLD PONG
The only thing has got to do with Waynes World is the absolutely
amazing quality samples accompanying the game.  Basically its just a
bat and ball game.  But get to the sound test and there are TONS of
extracts from the movie, and they all read from RAM too.


2990 NOSTROMO CHEATS AND SOLVES V2
Stacks and stacks of games cheats on here including loads of
adventure solutions like Monkey Island 1 + 2, Flashback, Another
World, Cruise for a Corpse, Dark Seed, &tc.  Also contains around
4-500 normal games cheats.


2991 THE DESIGNER V2.13
The Designer is a unique program for creating background graphics and
level maps for games.  By using The Designer, and any paint program,
you will be able to design backgrounds and level maps quickly, easily
and effectively, making the task in hand a lot more enjoyable.
Update to disk 2928.  **SHAREWARE**


2992 MEGABLOCK 2
Nice colourful version of Tetris with added features including bombs
and things.


2993 2 PLAYER GAMES (AGA ONLY)
Fatal Blows is a two - player fighting game in which two players
will take part in a three round bout. The player which wins best out
of three ains - simple as that!
 
Super Spaceball is yet another version of 2 player bat and ball with
the usual gameplay. Power pills and things appear, though.


2994 OLLYS AGA-DOO (AGA ONLY)
This disk is by the guys who did the PLUS range but this time they've
moved to AGA machines.  On here we have Giger-Tetris, MagicMenu,
Quickgrab, ReOrg and Superduper V3.  A whole host of goodies for you
lot out there. <HDToolBox was removed - (C) CBM...>


2996 TASKFORCE 
This is a strategy type game similar to the old Laser Squad type game.
Basically you move your men around the playing area one at a time,
taking out buildings and enemy soldiers.  The game also nicks a couple
of ideas from Syndicate.  Nice gfx and sound and the intro is
brilliant.  Nice one.


2997 FONT FARM 6
My god, Henders has been busy of late, compiling yet another disk
containing 50 bitmap fonts for all you lovers of Dpaint or any package
which supports bitmaps, i.e.  absolutely anything.


2998 FONT FARM 7
50 more fonts to use in your favorite package.


2999 FONT FARM 8
Not another 50 fonts for you surely.  Indeedy there is.


3000 GAMES GALORE 11
Yes folks we hit the big disk three thousand mark with a great
compilation here.  Hang on, lets just have a looky see whats on here
then.  One sec.......  Here we go.  Crazy Sue, Poing, Army Miner,
MiniPac, Ringwar, Isolation, Interferon, ASD Snake, Gammon AND City.
**ALL GAMES WILL WORK ON A 1200**


3001 GAMES GALORE 12
On here we have for your delights, AirAce 2, Ouch, Uggo, Dame,
Euphorion and 6 games which you can run from Workbench.  How nice.
**ALL GAMES WILL WORK ON A 1200**


3002 GAMES GALORE 13
BombPacMan, CrazyPipes, Columns, DownHill, PacMac, Yachtzy and
Solitaire are all on here guarenteed to work you into a frenzy.


3003 RAISING THE TITANIC
A weird but very well put together 3D Construstion Kit Game.
Graphically very nice.


3004A SHAD-ART AGA SLIDESHOW (AGA ONLY)
The sequel to disk 2607, two disks of brilliant artwork by D Hoyle.
The first disk contains loads of hand-drawn 256 pictures of Ferraris.
They are of an absolutely stunning quality and well worth a place in
any collection.  The second disk is filled with Ray-Traced artwork
with the likes of the Lego man and some creations done with Imagine.
Also theres a nice reset picture of Ivor Biggun.


3004B SHAD-ART AGA SLIDESHOW (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of SHAD-ART


3005 GAMES COMPILATION
Toybox <Pengo variant>, Bombclear <Minesweeper clone>, Killer
Tomatoes <Daleks clone>.


3006 SONGS FROM THE GUIDE (KS2+)
Rob Baxter has been a bit quiet of late but here he is with his latest
offering of toons to sooth this blues away.  Taken from his Desktop
Music Guide, (disks 2409ABC),Rob decided to put these tracks in
seperately simply because they were so hard to find on the original
disk.  3 classical offerings are available on this one for all fans
out there.


3007 KIDS DTP EXTRAS
To be used in conjunction with Kids DTP, on here are some extra
stickers, examples AND a competition.


3008 LECASM V1.0a
This is a combined assembler and editor for all you technical freaks
out there.  **SHAREWARE**


3009 VOCAL SAMPLES #1
28 samples on here with various orgasm sounds and various others for
you to enjoy.


3010 VOCAL SAMPLES #2
41 chillin, illin, willin and killin samples on here for all you rave
freaks out there.


3011 VOCAL SAMPLES #3
More of the above.  Also includes 6 breakbeats on here too.  RESPECT.
 
<But not much>


3012 VOCAL SAMPLES #4
MC Rob at the decks with another disk jam packed full of vocal noises
and WICKED jammin sounds COMIN AT YA.


3013 VOCAL SAMPLES #5
Take No Take No Take No Notice...


3014A INFESTATION:RAY WORLD DEMO (AGA ONLY)
This demo starts off with a silly clock type thing making you think
it could be really crap.  Then onto a nice animated wireframe figure
running around the screen.  A 3D vector world is next on the list.
Quite nice but nothing you haven't seen before.  As you would have
guessed in a demo called Ray World, there would be plenty of
Ray-Traced bits and there is indeedy.  Pictures and animations and
allsorts.  More vector worlds and bits finish this demo off.


3014B INFESTATION:RAY WORLD DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of INFESTATION:RAY WORLD


3014C INFESTATION:RAY WORLD DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Disk 3 of INFESTATION:RAY WORLD


3015 NOXIOUS:BEYOND BELIEF DEMO (AGA ONLY)
This demo is probably not one of the better ones we've had in
recently.  Dot effects, 16 vector multi-coloured cubes, Cindy
Crawford piccy, Brilliant Intel Outside zoom logo thing.  More dot
effects, pics and scrollers.  It all looks like a 1980's demo though.
Hard Drive Installable.


3016 FAIRLIGHT:FULL MOON DEMO (AGA ONLY)
This bugger takes 10 minutes to load (seriously!!) Is it worth it.
You bet.  As usual, Fairlight come up with a cracking demo starting
with a great zoom rotation, and then onto a doom-esque world.  Very
spooky atmospheric toon which jumps into hardcore rave.  Saucy piccys
splashed here and there as well.  Didnt seem to like running on my 6
Meg A1200 with 68881 though.


3017 ILLUSIONS 
Animated art package.  Create great animated effects.  **SHAREWARE**


3018 ARTISTIX
Brilliant kids drawing package.  Uses a 29 colour default palette for
some strange reason.  Loads and loads of different effects including
(here goes!!!) Circles, Rainbow Circles, Blobs, Rainbow Blobs, Spray
Paint, Rainbow Spray Paint, Straight Lines, Joined Up Lines.  19
different silly shapes, 19 crazy patterns, 12 messy paint tools, 13
flowers and plants, 8 Fonts and more.  Fantastic.  **SHAREWARE**


3019 SILVERBLADE
The aim of Silverblade is to fly your shiny new silver helicopter over
six different landscapes (defender style), wiping out a set number of
enemy red helicopters for each level.  **SHAREWARE**


3020 SWERVE AGA
On this disk there are a stack of backgrounds done in Maximum Overscan
in 64 colour, which you can use in a variety of Paint and Mulitmedia
Packages.


3021 GAME HELP DISK
Stacks of game cheats on this disk including Alien Breed, Aquatic
Games, Darkseed, B17, Superfrog, Body Blows, Goal, Frontier, Goblins,
Monkey Island 1 + 2 and loads loads more.


3022 AMOS EYES PACKAGE
AMOSEyes is an advanced Text Reader using the latest in user interface
controls, found in leading text-viewers.  But what sets this one apart
is it`s ability to bring in your own graphics and place them around
your docs.  Furthermore, it offers a Selector Screen that gives the
potential user the chance to skip the instructions altogether and
continue with whatever your disk is suppose to do.


3023 TELESCROLL 2
This is a good util for all you video titling freaks out there.  The
program enables you to load in any IFF picture and manipulate it in
various different ways.  Effects include, Wipe Effect, Scroll Effect,
Fade Speed, Scroll Speed etc, etc.  There are 11 scroll effects and 52
wipe effects on here made up of 7 Split Screen Effects & 4 Directional
Scrolls.  Luverly stuff.


3024 PSYCHO IMAGINE OBJECTS
There are 6 new objects on here for you to use with Imagine V2.0+.
Objects on here.  Television, Thunderbird 3, Guitar, Milk Bottle,
Mushroom and Ice Cream.  There are also a few attributes, a couple of
wraps and around 4 or 5 standard IFF piccys.


3025 GOLF GURU V1.2
This program records and analyses your golf scores throughout the
season.  Golf guru will record a round of golf in one of three
different ways.  Log only, Text scorecard, or Graphic Scorecard.  The
graphic scorecard is the most interesting whereby the user must first
draw each hole of the course with the built in editor and is of more
interest to club players who usually use the same course.


3026 FLYING LESSONS
A brilliant anim by Steve Attewell done in the style of the old
Roobarb cartoons.  At first the anim looks like its been knocked up in
5 minutes but you will soon realise that a great deal of effort has
gone into it.  The action is set around a little blob (his name
escapes me) who insists on trying various ways to get airborne.
Brilliant.


3027 3D STEREOGRAM SLIDESHOW
Hands up anyone whos stood looking in the window of Athena for hours
on end trying to figure out those silly dot pictures where you are
supposed to look BEYOND the picture.  Well now you can sit at home and
still feel a complete tit because heres a disk full of em.  We couldnt
guess any of em.  Any ideas??


3028 NOSTALGIUM 
A Cardiaxx style left right scrolling shoot-em up.  Fast action all
the way.  Its quite difficult in places cause the screen moves so
fast.  Nice explosions and sfx although the gfx arent up to much.
Reasonable.


3029A THE MIDNIGHT HOUR
A fairly reasonable music disk with a variety of toons, a couple of
nice anims and a couple of pictures.  **2 Drives required**


3029B THE MIDNIGHT HOUR
Disk 2 of THE MIDNIGHT HOUR


3030 PROJECT BUZZBAR
Brilliantly annoying 8 way scrolling asteroids style shoot-em up game.
Rescue the goodies and kill the baddies.  Nice gfx and sounds.


3031 HIRED GUNS MUSIC
7 tracks, all nicked from Hired Guns.  Brilliant stuff.


3033 BIOMECHANOID 1
A music disk with only one module on it.  Yep thats right.  The module
is 555k long and is one for all you ambient fans out there.  A nice
plasma picture sits in the background while you drift away into the
sea of tranquility.!!!!!!!


3034 F1 SOURCE
Source code for around 30 different AMOS programs.  There isnt even
enough room for a startup sequence.


3035 DELUXE GALAGA
Deluxe Galaga is based on the game StarBattle on the old VIC20.  It's
also some features from the games Galaga and Galaxions.  Basically its
a simple shoot em up game.  You know what Galaga is and this is a
souped up version.  A real corker.  **SHAREWARE**


3036 KIDS DTP 2 V2.6
An art/DTP/creating thingy for the sprogs.  The program gives you the
ability to draw Circles, Squares, Polygons or even make your own
brushes.  Fill shapes, use roller or spray gun effects.  Flip boxes,
add anims to your pages, magnify etc etc.  A selection of fonts are at
your disposal.  Create crosswords, wordsearches, sliding block
puzzles, dot to dots and mazes as well.  Damn good stuff.
**SHAREWARE**


3037 KIDS DISK 1
From the creator of Kids DTP comes this disk with 3 educational
programs.  Colour The Alphabet - Bit obvious isnt it.  Switch on to
Binary - Basic education about Binary.  Basic paint program - Scaled
down art package written im Amos which you can mess with the source if
you have Amos.


3038 KIDS DISK 2
Another offing from the aformentioned geezer.  This time he brings you
Maths Maze - Help the princess escape from the evil dungeon by
answering different maths questions.  Beat Sheets - Create your own
music with this VERY basic package.  Shape Sorter - A shape
recognition game.


3039 ROBS HOT GAMES 1
Yes folks, a games compilation of my very own.  Scorched Tanks V1.15,
Cardz, Thrust, Turbo Hockey and a classic version of Bomberman called
Dynamic Warriors.


3040 ROBS HOT STASH 1
And here is my second offering, a disk full of the very latest utils
compiled in 10 minutes by your beloved Cat Disk editor.  On here we
have Fitdisk V1.0, PPShow V4, AddPower V37.6, ARTM V2.00, AZAP V2.11,
BootScreen V2.1, ConvertHam V1.2, Crunchmania V1.91t, DiskInfo V1.0,
Exotic Ripper V2.21A, QDisk V2.01, SysInfo V3.23, Reducer V1.0 and
Spriteclock V1.1.  Not bad for 1.50 eh!!!!!


3041 FORTRESS
A strategy game set in medieval times.  Control armys, weapons,
defences etc.  Even control the weather.
**SHAREWARE**


3042 A DAY AT THE RACES
A horse racing management style game.  Buy a neddy and take it
through a season.  Train it, bet on it, feed it, &tc.  A reasonably
good effort although the race footage is laughable.  **SHAREWARE**


3043 STATES OF EUROPE
An educational package written in Hyperbook.  Contains information
about every country in Europe.  Four different sections are available.
Factfiles, Organisations, Eurolists and Flags.  Information includes
Population, Life Expectancy and tons more facts and figures.  Great
geography package.


3044 SPACE INVASION 2
Souped up space invaders game for all you nostalgia freaks wishing to
relive the pre-pubescent era.


3045 ZAM 4 (KS2+)
After what seems like an age, comes the latest issue of this disk mag
crammed full of articles (NOT!) covering a wild manner of subjects.
This disk is good for a laugh and for just about anybody who can read.
It also contains a revolutionary reply while reading feature.


3046A AXIS:BIG TIME SENSUALITY DEMO (AGA ONLY)
An absolute corker of a demo from Axis.  Starts off with a hand drawn
animated landscape with realtime zoom rotation and a couple of
fantastic raytraced logos.  Real AGA 256 colour plasma.  Soom more
zoom rotated piccys, a couple more normal piccys.  One of the best AGA
demos to date.  All backed up with a brill version of Bjorks Big Time
Sensuality and the group who wrote this say its only an INTRO!!!!


3046B AXIS:BIG TIME SENSUALITY DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of AXIS:BIG TIME SENSUALITY


3047 HIGH OCTANE
The game actually starts off with a mega long animated intro and a
good music score.  You've read the reviews now get the game.  This is
an Overdrive style overhead driving game with power ups, weapons and
a 2 player option as well.  Excellent gfx & sfx.  A very fast game.


3048 VIDEOTRACKER AGA
With VideoTracker you can make a videoclip around a
SoundTracker-module.  You can use pictures, brushes, animations,
animation-brushes, palettes, colorcycle, routines, texts, objects,
vectorobjects, amigafonts, karafonts, landscapes, colorsets.  When
the video is finished, you can save the module and video data as a
executable file which plays the module and the video.  You also can
use VideoTracker with a GenLock and, for example, make professional
movie-titles with colorfonts.


3049 EAGLEPLAYER
Not a new util but its damn good.  Its a module player which
completely beats the pants off Delitracker.  Plays 74 different music
formats.  Features 28 different Spectrum Analysers, Quadroscope, Peak
Level Graphs, + running time.  **SHAREWARE**


3050 TOADO
A clone of the old frogger style game.  This was recently featured on
the front cover of Amiga Format, but this version has more levels.
**SHAREWARE**


3051 ACCOUNT MASTER V2.21
Up to 1000 entries can be accepted per account.  You can search any
one of those entries for any piece of data:  description, code, debit
amount, credit amount, deferred entry...Full editing features.  Alter
any entry in any fashion in any order.  Dates can also be altered.
By the way, dates do not need to be entered chronologically, Account
Master sorts this out for you.  Full printing facilities are
available.


3052 ASSASSINS A1200 FIXES 2
Yes folks the ASI lot are back with another helping of degraders for
your shiny new Amiga.  On here we have Runlame, Runpal V1.1, Shutup,
KillAGA, ForceVGA, SKick and also some AGA game fixes, i.e.
Megolomania, R-Type, Jimmy Whites Snooker and Powermonger.


3054 ASSASSINS MULTIVISION AGA
On this disk there are a host of gfx utils for all you AGA owners out
there.  Viewtek V2.0, Fast J-PEG, DJ-PEG GUI, and load of datatypes
for PCX, Macpaint, ICO, BMP and GIF.


3055 DEVOLUTION SLIDESHOW #2
The second slideshow in this series contains some excellent ray traced
piccys of cars, various space ships and craft and other such items.
There are around 20 pictures on this disk.  Excellent VFM.


3056 WICKED SPEECH SAMPLES #1
Most of the samples on this disk were taken from rap albums and so
will be useful for anybody into the Hey Yo Kickin type (C)rap that we
know and hate.  The quality isnt bad.  All the files are powerpacked
and so you will need to decrunch them before you can use them.  Will
work with Protracker (Octa)MED and loads of others.


3057 JCB SAMPLES #1
Yet another samples disk, but this one is different from the norm.  It
contains 27 instuments covering three categories, JAZZ, BLUES and
CLASSICAL.  Most of the samples are RAW bit there are a couple of IFFs
on here too.  All are powerpacked and so will need decrunching first,


3058 VARK CLI UTILS #4
A massive compilation of CLI utils on this disk.  Well 27 to be exact.
Contains great utils including, Quickgrab AGA, Twin Express, Disksalv
2, Editkeys, Powertracker and Perverter to name but a few.


3059 PARADROID 64
This is a conversion of the classic game which a lot of you ex C64
owners should remember quite well.  The aim of the game is simple,
destroy everything.  The enemy robots can be shot, beaten or be
destroyed by one of his own robots.  This is a VERY close replica of
the original and should be relished by all fans.


3060A NIGHTBREED AGA SLIDES #3
13 pictures on this slideshow set.  All are in 256 colour Hi-Res Lace.
There are a variety of weird and wonderful objects on here including
racytraced objects and some fractal stuff too.


3060B NIGHTBREED AGA SLIDES #3
Disk 2 of NIGHTBREED #3


3061A SEVEN SEAS SLIDESHOW
Absolutely stunning fantasy style artwork on this 2 disk set brought
to you by Andromeda.


3061B SEVEN SEAS SLIDESHOW
Disk 2 of SEVEN SEAS


3062 TELE-TITLE 2 (LO-RES)
This update now incorporates TELE-SCROLL 1 into the program allowing
you more sequence methods to use.  This is a video titling program
which uses Bobs instead of Fonts which means you can use characters
with up to 64 colours in your production.  There are loads of features
on here so you can make quite a professional effort of your work.
Also on here is Copyright Effex which allows you to enter a copyright
message and then choose from a bank of 11 scrolls and 52 wipes to
display your message.


3063 COLOUR SWAP
Colour Swap is utility that Swaps the Colours of your picture for the
doubled colours in your palette.  The doubled colours are
automatically created for you.  Also on this disk are TELE-SPARES 3.
There are 10 bob files and 10 character width sizes for use with
TELE-TITLE 2 LO-RES


3064 ALIEN FRENZY
A 2 player Tanx style shooting game with robots.  The object is to
deplete your enemy of all his energy before he does the same to you.
Nice gfx and reasonable sound make this a very good game.  **USE OLD
CHIPSET ON AGA MACHINES**


3065 X-PASSWORD
X-Password is a program designed to enable you to protect your hard
disk or floppy disks with a password system so that nobody else in
your family can gain access to your private files.  This program is
shareware so only the default password can be used.  Upon
registering, the full version will allow you to use any user name and
any password.  **SHAREWARE**


3066 INFINITY
This is a demo disk full of loads of very nice plasma routines and
colour cycling fractals etc etc.  **1.5 MB CHIP RAM REQUIRED**


3067 MAG-E #2
Issue 2 of this excellent fantasy/sci-fi mag contains 55 articles
covering a wide range of subjects including, Dr Who stuff, Star trek
stuff, a stack of RPG/adventure game info and loads of others.  All
the files are powerpacked and can be not accessed via the menu.  They
must be decrunched and loaded into a wordprocessor.


3068 SCORCHED TANKS V1.77
Scorched Tanks is a tank warfare game where 1 to 4 human players or
computer controlled opponents, take turns at buying fancy weapons and
shooting them at each other.  The more damage a player causes another,
the more money they get.  The more money a player receives, the larger
the weapons they can buy.  This is a very simple concept, but
extreemly addictive!  This game is a spin off of the PC classic,
Scorched Earth.  This new version incorporates a whole new front end
and a shit stack of new weapons.  ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT.


3069 STEREOSCOPE
Yet another RDS generator, i.e.  converting your IFFs into those
little dot pictures and making you go bos-eyed from staring at them
too long, This proggy is a little more user friendly then RDS because
it uses a GUI and requesters to convert the pictures although the
Hard Drive Installer doesn't seem to work.  **FAST RAM REQ**


3070 FRIENDS OF PAULA #5
A high quality music disk as always from the FOP.  5 modules on here.
If you've got the others then youll know the style, if you haven't
then unpack it anyway.


3071 CD READER V1.1
CD-reader is based around the ParNet networking system and uses the
standard ParNet cable.  It works a little differently and
inexperienced users should find it a doddle.  **SHAREWARE**


3073 FRIENDS OF PAULA #1
FOP 1 coming after FOP 5.  Yes, well.  4 stylish moody tunes on this
one.


3074 FRIENDS OF PAULA #2
And heres FOP 2.  4 modules.  Go figure.


3075A BODYSHOP 6
Bath Oil 'n' Herbal Smell International.


3075B BODYSHOP 6
Disk 2 of BODYSHOP 6


3076A BODYSHOP 7
Okay, okay.  Repair your car's doorpanels with ethnically-correct
talcum powder made by starving African grandmothers <we can probably
throw in a Lesbian single-mother reference in here and cover all
bases, but what the hell> for half the price...


3076B BODYSHOP 7
Disk 2 of BODYSHOP 7


3077A PASTEL VANILLA
A 2 disk music set from Nova with a brilliant raytraced anim stuck on
the front end.  Very professionally coded.  There are 9 tunes
altogether covering a wide range of varying music styles.


3077B PASTEL VANILLA
Disk 2 of PASTEL VANILLA


3078 TOTAL IRRELEVANCE #5
The latest issue of the disk mag for all you music freaks has arrived.
Including the latest version of Aural Illusion Junior (sample
manipulation software) and a host of articles including, Basic
Sampling, MIDI for beginners, adding effects to your samples, and
loads more + a competition, how lovely!


3080A ASGARDS MEGA CHEATS 
This a massive cheat compilation containing over 550 different cheats,
passwords etc, over 100 game solutions mainly for RPG's etc, loads of
Action Replay codes, Megadrive and SNES cheats.


3080B ASGARDS MEGA CHEATS 
Disk 2 of ASGARDS MEGA CHEATS 


3080C ASGARDS MEGA CHEATS 
Disk 3 of ASGARDS MEGA CHEATS 


3081 CHEQUE MATE
Cheque-Mate!  is a program designed to help you control your personal
finances.  You enter details about cheques, salary, direct debits etc.
and when you check your entries against bank statements Cheque-Mate!
will automatically display if your confirmed balance which should
reflect the state of your bank account.  Cheque-Mate!  can hold up to
1000 entries which should be enough for most people in one year.


3082A ANT WARS
This is an absolutely brilliant game which can only be described as a
cross between Lemmings and Cannon Fodder.  The object of the game is
to simply blow up all the bad ants.  Actually carrying out the
mindless executions is a bit more difficult.  As in lemmings, you
must dig/climb/build/&tc your way through the scenery before you
can take a pot-shot at the enemy.  Helicopters are at your disposal
and a number of other features make this game a winner.


3082B ANT WARS
Disk 2 of ANT WARS


3083 CD32>CDROM-GAMES 
Want to play those CD32 games on your CDROM drive?  Now you can with
this disk of patches to get the following CD's to run:  Amiga CD!
Magazine (Issue 1&2), James Pond 2, Liberation, Mean Arenas, Overkill
& Lunar-C, and Pinball Fantasies.  Also includes digitized pictures to
help fitting of a CD-ROM drive in an A4000.  This disk is non-booting.
All files must be accessed via Workbench.


3084 THE_DD>HD_MODIFICATION 
Got a Power Computing XL (High density) disk drive?  Convert it to
think normal DD (Double density) disks are HD disks.  This disk uses
full colour digitized pictures to take you through this easy, and
very cheap, electronics project.  <Almathera, 17-Bit and the disk
author take no responsibility for users pranging their hardware.  Be
warned>


3085 CINDY CRAWFORD CARD SET
A stunning set of cards for use with Klondyke AGA all featuring that
loveable babe in a series of different poses.


3086 FACES CARD SET
Another set of cards for Klondyke AGA - this time they all feature
faces of models and various other nice looking women.


3087 ANIME CARD SET
A third set of cards for Klondyke AGA.  The cards on this disk are
all based on the anime theme.


3088 HAJIME CARD SET
This final set of cards for Klondyke AGA contains the artwork of
Sorayame Hajime.  Anyone who has seen this guys stuff will know that
it is probably the best hand drawn glamour artwork ever.
Also on here are a couple of cards using the work of Boris Vallejio
just to make up the numbers.


3090A GRAPEVINE 19
Im not going to bother...........


3090B GRAPEVINE 19
Disk 2 of GRAPEVINE 19


3090C GRAPEVINE 19
Disk 3 of GRAPEVINE 19


3091 FATAL MORGANA AGA
This demo starts off with a crap plasma effect and a fairly reaonable
rave track.  Spinning vector effects, a dancing woman (idea nicked
from State of the Art no doubt), a silly B+W ostrich, some more
vector cubes and a Beavis & Butthead cartoon finale.  Fairly good.


3092 SFX SERIES #6
Yet another disk in the series of sfx.  The samples arent 100
brilliant in quality but seeing as no one else as done any then were
not complaining.  Samples on here are taken from Beavis and Butthead
and from various other sources.


3093 SFX SERIES #7
Yet more FX from Nicholas Von Hooper Strarzzen.


3094 SERIOUS BACKGAMMON
This is a game of backgammon.  I havent got a clue how to play
backgammon.  Its nice for you old gimmers out there.  Probably.
**SHAREWARE** we think.


3095 KNIGHTWOODE
The author of Talisman presents this new adventure game to you.  The
beautiful valley of Knightwoode was a peaceful until one day, a
mysterious castle was built and thats where the trouble began.  A
brave rebel named Fastflow September led an attack on the castle
dwellers but was defeated.  Your job is to guide fastflows son through
the game solving the puzzles etc and finally defeating the inhabitants
of the castle so that once again the villagers can live in peace.  An
excellent, VERY addictive adventure game with in game graphics.


3096 ACT OF WAR MISSIONS
On this disk are four new missions for the REGISTERED version of Act
of War.  Base Assault, Space Hulk, Retaliation and Exterminate are the
missions you must undertake.


3097 ALIEN PATROL 
A good anim from the author of Suicide Man.  This time he has taken a
different approach and gone for a space adventure anim.  It follows
the story of a space ship that embarks on a mission only to come
across some unfriendly foes in the area.  **1.5 MEG REQUIRED**


3098 SUICIDE MAN 3
He's back again, punters.  The loony who doesn't know when to stop.
You thought he was dead but here's suicide man again having a go at
trying to top himself by jumping off a very high platform and losing
his head in the bargain much to the crowds enjoyment.  Brilliant
pre-quel.  **1.5 MB REQ**


3099 ROBS HOT STASH #2
Here we are with the second helping of my utils disks.  Because its
mine, im going to tell you everything whats on it.  So there.....
DMS V2.01, Unzip V5.1, FastJPEG V1.1, Stonecrack V4.10.3, The DiskUte
V2.3, MuchMore V4.3, Lazybench V1.14, McMaster V1.2, SuperDuper V3.1,
PhoneDir V1.0, VClock, Menufy, Washer and ShellMenus.  And thats yer
lot.


3100 ROBS HOT STASH #3
Oooohh looky what we have here.  Yep its another of the little
blighters.  On here we have ABackup V4.06, Delitracker V2 (the HD
install is a bit dodgy), Iconify, MenuStay V1.0, Diskexec V1.1 and
DClock V1.0.  Not many on here but Delitracker is massive and they are
all new.


3102 GCSE MATHS
This disk includes all aspects covered in the GCSE maths curriculum.
Topics include Prime Numbers & Factors, Fractions, General Maths,
Calendar maths and Measurements.  The questions did appear to be a
little bit easy for GCSE but if you are struggling then this disk
could be for you.


3103 ANDROMEDA:SEQUENTIAL DEMO
The demo starts off with a nice bubbles effects and some excellent gfx
and logos.  On it goes with an extremely fast and smooth rollercoaster
ride. A lot of the text is synched in with the music giving the demo a
very professional look and feel.  Vectors and other effects round the
demo off. <Spring: Won The Gathering '94, Norway. Many original ideas>


3104 COMPLEX:REAL AGA DEMO
Another superb AGA production from the group that brought you Origin.
One of the best fonts I have ever seen is used in the introduction,
and a stunning never been seen before texture mapped cube tunnel
effect is first on the list.  Various other texture mapped objects fly
around and another texture mapped tunnel leading into a 3D vector
world concludes the show. <Summer: Won Saturne Party 2, France>


3105 LES DENNIS HANGMAN
A PD version of hangman with samples of Les Dennis nicked from Family
Fortunes.


3106 THE MR MEN PACK
This disk is 3 years old.  Do we care.  Do we heck.  Ive never seen it
before now so its going in the library.  3 Mr Men stories on here.  Mr
Worry, Mr Nonsense and Mr Mischief.  All the gfx are hand-drawn, not
scanned or digitized.  An excellent one for young kids or adults if
you are like me !!!!  **NEEDS KICK 1.3 TO WORK ON A1200**


3107 DIVIDEND WINNER
Dividend Winner is a pools prediction aid which will advise which
numbers to enter on your coupon based on sequence prediction.  To
further enhance the chances of winning a comprehensive Perm generator
is included.  Being mouse driven it is fast, easy to use, and is
suitable for both casual punter and serious investor.  The program
also a uses the new Bestfit auto-tune feature.


3108 OXYGENE:CUZCO DEMO
Nice routines with balls and stars and whatnots.  Then onto some
lightshaded vectors and fractal effects.  Texture mapped cubes and
other objects + a nice zoom rotated picture and other FX finishing the
demo off with a nice Oxygene raytraced logo.


3109 ELECTRONIC KNIGHTS:RAMPAGE DEMO
Superb opening screen using 4 vector cogs.  A brilliant annoying tune
plays throughout this demo which goes on for ages and has tons of
different parts including fast textured landscapes, coloured balls and
a zoom rotated piccy amongst other things.


3110 TEMPORAL MISPLACEMENT
This is an excellent adventure game set in the Global Science
Corporation.  The object of the game is to jump back in time and
retrieve a crystal which stores enough energy to supply all planetary
needs from one single location.  What makes this game so good is that
the author has used digitized pictures instead of just plain text or
hand drawn gfx, giving the game an `atmosphere'.


3111 THE SHEPHERD
This game is very similar to Populous in many ways apart from the
object of the game being to buy animals and place them on the map so
that they multiply as fast as possible.  Sounds crap, but it's not.
The animals behave like real ones moving in flocks etc etc.  Trees,
bushes and other food forms all play a part.  Good stuff.


3112 ROBS HOT STASH #4
Yes.  Back by popular demand.  Number 4 has arrived, on here we have
Virus Checker 6.41, PowerSnap 2.2a, ABCDir V3.0, XModule V2.5 and
finally the Alien Breed 2 Hard Drive Installer for AGA and normal
versions.  Luverly.


3113 TEAM FOCUS:TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR
Everything you ever wanted to know about Spurs.  Info about the
players, club history, &tc.


3114A CHARLEY CAT 9:CORAL QUARREL
Yes, Charley Cat, the world's most ferocious feline,is back for more
cat antics.  In CORAL QUARREL, he's back on the beach, this time
hoping to relax more than in DOWN AT THE SEA, the second CC anim.  I
suppose you could call this a semi-sequel to that.  But he's got some
familiar problems to face, as Tiger (his arch-enemy) once again tries
to muscle in on his girlfriend Alyson.  And all he wanted to do was
surf and relax!  The anim is on 5 disks and requires 4.5MB of RAM to
run.  Hard drive or external drive(s) strongly recommended.


3114B CHARLEY CAT 9:CORAL QUARREL
Disk 2 of CHARLEY CAT 9


3114C CHARLEY CAT 9:CORAL QUARREL
Disk 3 of CHARLEY CAT 9


3114D CHARLEY CAT 9:CORAL QUARREL
Disk 4 of CHARLEY CAT 9


3114E CHARLEY CAT 9:CORAL QUARREL
Disk 5 of CHARLEY CAT 9


3115 MECHANETIX SLIDESHOW #1
This disk contains 10 JPEG pictures which are all 24 bit compressed
images.  They are all based on a space theme.  The quality is rather
good on an AGA machine but on anything else, I wouldnt bother although
the disk will still work fine.


3116 OVERLANDER
Anyone remember Moon Alert on the spectrum from days gone by?  Well
this is a souped-up version for your amiga.  Basically its a left to
right scrolling shooting type game.  The object being to blast the
enemys, jump the hurdles, collect the fuel and reached the goal.  The
gfx and sfx are very well done.  Control your Moon Buggy and reach the
end.  Addictive.


3117 RUNEMASTER V1.05
Anyone fancy messing around with a big pile of bricks? This
program will tell you how to do it properly.


3118A CHANNEL Z #5
Issue 5 of this popular disk mag opens with a fantastic sample which
I'm sure you will all want to nick.  As usual, this two disk set is
filled with news, articles, utilities, pictures, music and a demo all
of which are AGA related.


3118B CHANNEL Z #5
Disk 2 of CHANNEL Z #5


3119 LARGO (FROM BEETHOVENS PIANO CONCERTO #1)
The latest classical production from Rob Baxter brings to you a piece
fro Beethoven.  You are probably accustomed to Robs work by now and
this is as good a piece as any of his previous work.  If you like this
kind of music then get this disk.  **1 MB CHIP RAM REQUIRED**


3120 SCHNEBITZ INC.
A brilliant colourful puzzle game featuring superb graphics and sound.
The view is a sort of 3D effect.  The basic aim of each level is to
place the correct coloured block on the same T panel.  This is
achieved by picking up blocks and putting them down again.  Simple.
But there are a few twists, e.g.  Doors, One Way Systems, Warps and
Nastys.  Excellent


3121 GUNFIGHTER
Basically the aim of this game is: Shoot your opponent before he
shoots you.  Thrilling stuff?  You most probably saw it get a very
favourable review in Amiga Computing.


3122 PEARL:SATISFACTION GUARANTEED DEMO
This demo opens up with a fast rave track and then shows us about ten
minutes worth of spinning ball routines.  Not very exciting.  Then
there is a nice full screen tunnel morph/zoom effect if you can work
out what that means.  A dot tunnel is next on the agenda.  Getting a
bit old hat these nowadays and finally a super fast tunnel effect that
makes ya eyes go funny and will probably give you a fit or something.


3123 AEROSOL MUSIC DISK
A rave disk.  We havent had one of these for a while.  4 tracks on
here.  Roughly 5 minutes long each.  If you like it, fine, if you
don't, fine.


3124 AMIGADOS TUTORIAL
This disk is very handy for all you complete beginners out there.
(And judging by our customers, there are some old timers who could do
with this).  A window appears upon loading, with every single DOS
command you could think of.  Click on a command and a full
description of what that command does and how it can be used appears
in the bottom half of the screen.  Excellent learning aid.


3125 PROGRAM LOADER
Program loader is an excellent util for all you Harddrive owners.
(That should mean EVERYBODY now).  Basically it allows you to launch
programs from a menu on the workbench screen, instead of having to
click in draws within draws within draws just to find a file.  You can
execute 100 different programs all by the click of just ONE button.


3126 METROLINK
Yet another new music disk from thr master of classical stuff, Rob
Baxter.  This time though he has compiled a disk of original music
which doesnt have a Mozart or a Beethoven in sight.  Containing three
tunes, with some very weird effects including one Rob describes as
Phoneme Speech Synthesizing.  Yes folks, your guess is as good as
mine.  The music is very er...interesting to say the least.  **1 MB
CHIP REQ**


3127 POLKA BROTHERS:FRIDAY AT 8 AGA DEMO
Another AGA demo this time from Polka Bros.  On this one we start off
with a nice tunnel effect, then into b-Splines, and a super fast
spinning picture effect.  Various other routines are splashed here
and there with some great effects.  Uses the 256 colour pallete in
various places.  Also this demo is Harddrive installable AND you can
drop to DOS from it.  Brilliant.  <Released at The Gathering '94,
Norway>


3128 GAMES GALORE 14
Gazza is back with a new compilation of games to tickle your fancy.
On here we have Artillerus, Cryptoking, DepthCharge, Mine, ParCheese,
SolitaireX, ZNYK and DepthCharge.  Luverly stuff


3129 GAMES GALORE 15
Another offing of games from the king of er..er...  well yes.  This
disk is lucky enough to be adorned with the following stash.  Air
Hockey, Deluxe Galaga V1.5, Dynamite Warriors, Equilog, Galactoid,
Shuffle and WB Tetris V1.52


3130 GAMES GALORE 16
Another helping of goodies from G.H.  Backgammon, (does anybody
actually know how to play this bloody game), Copper, Imperial,
MineSweeper, NightFight, WhiteLion and Zerberk.


3131 FONT FARM 9
Mr Henders has been busy again.  Must be the time of year or
something.  The usual on here, 50 Bitmap Fonts for you all to use in
Dpaint or whatever package you might have lying around.


3132 FONT FARM 10
Only 10 fonts on this one, but they're huge.  Big is not the word.
Massive, enormous, astronomical or whatever else.


3133 KIDS STUFF
An excellent kids art package which is very easy to use.  A 16 colour
palette is available.  There is the ability to draw lines, circles,
squares, triangles.  Fill shapes, Zoom in and out.  Magnify, draw
grids and load and save pictures.  **SHAREWARE**


3134 AMOS DISKMAGAZINE #0
The first edition of a magazine which seems like it could be very
popular.  Lots of articles on here including Reviews, Programming
tips, hints and tutorials, Problems, Source codes, and example
programs, &tc.


3135 GREEN 5
A superb Flashback style platform game with a very good intro.
Excellent gfx and animated speech.  The only problem is that its very
hard.  **SHAREWARE**


3136 ART CARDSET
Yet another cardset for Klondike AGA.  This time we have classic
paintings.


3137 ROBS HOT STASH #5
Another superb compilation of the very latest utils compiled by ME!
On here we have Teletext V1.1 (V1.2 will replace this when I get it),
VirusZ II V1.08, Clock V1.2, DosTrace V2.20, Editkeys V1.5, and
DiskExec V1.2.  ** KS2+ REQ **


3138 ROBS HOT GAMES #2
The second helping of games from me.  This disk contains Yahzee V1.0,
Automobiles, Shoot Pontoon, Pub Darts and Simon.  Excellent value for
money.  ** KS2+ REQ **


3139 ROBS HOT GAMES #3
Yet another disk, the third in the series compiled by yours truly.
Lots on here.  Luffar, Protris V1.1, Sokoban, Denver Duk, Solitaire,
Tetrapuz, Toe Popper, Slider, Piper and Cracked.  Superb
** KS2+ REQ **


3141 ROBS HOT GAMES #5
You'd think I had nothing better to do all day then compile these
games disks wouldnt you.  Solar Lords, Fatal Mission 3, Stewards
Enquiry and Cycles II all on here.  ** KS2+ REQ **


3142 CRYPTOBURNERS:BRAIN-STATE-IN-A-BOX
<Complete rewrite follows: ;->
 
This was released at The Gathering '94, Norway.  AGA only, with some
superb zoom/fallthrough effects loosely based on the usual tunnel
effects but in solid colour, as well as some great polar-based colour
mapping and false-colour landscape flybys.  Done to a superb
laid-back techno soundtrack.  Unpack and chill.


3144 ROBS HOT STASH #6
Another compilation of the very latest releases (although they wont be
the very latest by the time you read this).  On here we have:- Exotic
Ripper V2.23, High Octane Map Editor (design your own tracks), Pro
Wizard V2.0, Address Book V1.4, Azap V2.0, Window Daemon V1.9.30,
NoteIt V1.4.1, Runlist V1.0 and SpiroDraw V0.3.


3145 PROBOARD V1.0b
The ProBoard PCB designer is intended to provide the Amiga user with a
quality design package capable of the same standards of output as the
more expensive systems available for the likes of the PC.


3146 TMA
Fly your spaceship around the huge area.  Collecting the weaponry and
power-ups, and hitting the right switches to enable you to fly into
the correct sectors of the building.  Superb gfx and excellent sound
makes this one of the best shoot-em ups around.  This is only the
first level.  You have to send off the shareware fee to get the other
3 levels.  **SHAREWARE**


3147A CYBERTECH CORP
This is probably the best, most profesional looking PD game ever
produced.  Although it is a complete and utter blatant rip off of
Alien Breed II AGA.  The intro, the music the graphics and the coding
are all first class.  Basically the game IS Alien Breed.  Can't aford
the full price AB?  Then get this.  Walk round the ship, collecting
the keys, and the credits to buy more weapons.  Shoot the aliens and
try to perform the tasks which are given to you at the start of each
level.  A real winner ** AGA ONLY **


3147B CYBERTECH CORP
Disk 2 of CYBERTECH CORP


3148 WICKED SPEECH SAMPLES #2
23 wicked, kickin, illin, willin, AND chillin vocal samples to use in
Med, Protracker, Soundtracker, Octamed or whatever else you wish to
use them in.  All the files are packed using PowerPacker and so must
be unmunched before you can use them.


3149A MAG E #3
The latest issue of this brilliant disk magazine dedicated to all you
Sci-fi/Fantasy gurus out there.  The disk contains 20 Dr Who
articles, 7 Fantasy articles, 7 Red Dwarf articles, 26 Star Trek
articles, 4 RPG articles, 5 Fiction articles, 17 Sci-Fi articles, 2
pieces of music and 6 pictures.  This little lot should keep you
going for quite a while.  The author has gone back to the style of
the first issue where the articles can be loaded straight off the
menu.


3149B MAG E #3
Disk 2 of MAG E #3


3150 SONIC DRUM KIT V2.0
A Drum Kit for your Amiga?  Yep thats right.  This particular program
works with scores, like Sonix.  Load in samples, and add them to the
score building up a pattern as you go along.  Then when you have
finished you have a full drum loop to mess around with.  Scores can be
as big or as small as you like.  Memory dependant.  You can tailor the
loop exactly as you want with all the in built functions, &tc.


3151 THE UNUSUAL CASE OF DR STRANGE
Based on the old Dig Dug game basically you must use your pick axe to
knock chunks out of the platforms.  When the nastys become trapped,
you must then whack them on the noddle and kill them.  The graphics
and sound effects are amazing for a PD game and the intro is a comic
book style opening with a nice zoom effect on the castle.  Excellent
stuff.  Buy this game now!!!!!


3152 DEEP 9
JPEG space pictures......Booooringgggg.


3153 DEEPER 9
JPEG space pictures. Yawn.


3154 CLASSIC SCI-FI/HORROR MOVIE SLIDESHOW 2
Digitized pictures taken from the posters of Classic B movies of
modern day film.  Piccys on here are taken from One Million Years B.C,
Invaders from Mars, Day of the Triffids, The Mummy, When Dinosaurs
Ruled the Earth, Curse of the Demon, Attack of the 50ft Woman and
House of Wax.  There is also a small chunk of info about each film.


3155 GENESIS MUSIC
No, not THE Genesis but some crappy rave music, although 2 out of the
three tracks aren't bad.


3156 MARBLEBASE 
MarbleBase is a database which is easy to set up and use.  The special
features of this database are that, once a field has been setup it can
be moved around and expanded across and down the screen, thus given
you more room for text in that field.  The maximum number of fields
you can have at any one time is nine.  There is an automatic sort
function from a-z plus search and print option.


3157 ORBIT
4 versions of the Tron game on here.  But this time they are a little
different.  The games were written by the same person who wrote Ant
Wars and are of a very high quality albeit rather frustrating.  There
are 2 one player games and 2 two player games.  The main difference
between all of these and the countless other Tron clones around is
that the lines you control go where the hell they like.  They dont
have to go straight.  Very annoying, you could end up smashing your
machine up in frustration but very addictive!


3158 ROBS HOT STASH #7
Only the best utils on my comps people.  On here we have HDFrequency
V2.0 (sample straight to HD), Sound Effect V2.0, AdPro AnimMaker
V1.01, Title Bar Clock, QDisk V2.11, Scheduler V1.20, IFFTrasher V1.01
and GCopy V2.0.  ** KS2+ REQ **


3160 BLITZBLANKER V1.01
A screenblanker that you have all been asking us for and now it has
arrived.  (Finally!!!) This particular blanker features AGA/OS3.0
compatibility, graphics card support, modular, fancy modules, GUI
interface, screenmode requester built in, commodity, mouseblanker and
sourecodes in BlitzBasic 2.  13 different modules are included.  **
KS2+ REQ **


3161A IMAGINE V2 BUDDY SYSTEM
The buddy system is designed to work in conjunction with Imagine V2.
It works fine with the coverdisk version of Imagine.  Basically the
buddy system gives online help for EVERY SINGLE Imagine command.  Its
very simple to use.  Load Imagine, then load the buddy system and jump
back into Imagine.  Every time you hit the help key, a window appears
and you can select a command and it will tell you exactly what its
for.  Very handy.  An excellent idea which works brilliantly.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **


3161B IMAGINE V2 BUDDY SYSTEM
Disk 2 of IMAGINE V2 BUDDY SYSTEM


3168A CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION AGA
12 pictures of 'erself in glorious 256 colour for you all to drool
over.  All are in GIF format.


3168B CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION AGA
Disk 2 of CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION


3169A CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION 2 AGA
12 more pictures of 'el over-rated' in various states of undress.
All are in 256 colour GIF format.


3169B CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION 2 AGA
Disk 2 of CINDY CRAWFORD COLLECTION 2


3171 INTROGASH
Introgash is a graphic adventure.  The gfx and sound arent brilliant
but gameplay is superb.  Although quite difficult at first, you will
find things get easier as you explore.  Your mission is to escape
from the dungeon.  You were thrown into the dungeon by the Government
because they found out that you knew that they were getting secret
information from the countries top drug dealers.  They planned to let
you rot in the dungeon.  You must escape, find a computer terminal
and print out proof needed to close the government down.


3172 FONT FARM 11
20 more fonts for you to use in your favourite paint package or WP.
all supplied as usual by Gary.


3173 FONT FARM 12
50 more bitmaps for you to use.


3174 BITS & BOBS
This is a compilation by someone who shall remain nameless from now
on.  I think hes had enough mentions in this catalogue.  Anyway here
are a couple of proggys from him..A game:- Casino BlackJack V1.02 and
a util IFF-ASCII which converts IFF files to...well if you cant work
that out then theres no hope.  Also on here are 20 bitmap fonts.


3175A KLONDIKE 2 AGA
Version 2 of this brilliant AGA card game.  This updated release
includes 2 brand new cardsets.  The ability to load 20 different
cardsets and 20 different pieces of music.  4 screen modes are now
available.  A menu bar is now on the game screen allowing you to
execute all these functions from there.  The three levels of play are
still incorporated also.  Basically this is a very very souped up
version of Patience.  If you have an AGA machine and you have a hard
drive (cause ya need one), then get this.  ** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **


3175B KLONDIKE 2 AGA
Disk 2 of KLONDIKE 2


3175C KLONDIKE 2 AGA
Disk 3 of KLONDIKE 2


3177 RICHARD SMEDLEY COMPILATION
Another compilation by Mr Smedley himself.  This time round we have
Vat Checker V2.00, RPI Calculator V2.00, Biorhythms, Calender V2.10,
Cash V1.00 and Pay Advice Analyser V4.00.  So if you are into keeping
an eye on your pennys, then this disk is ideal for you.


3178A TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN 2
The second set of pictures dedicated to old King Tut.  The first set
(Disk Nos 2916AB) Continuing the theme of lost treasure, egyptian
kings and pyramids (sounds familiar, no?).  Around 20 pictures
spanning the two disks because they are all in JPEG format.  There is
very little loss in picture quality.  A superb educational tool and
an excellent follow to an already excellent set of disks.


3178B TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN 2
Disk 2 of TREASURES OF TUTANKHAMUN 2


3179 GLOBAL THERMONUCLEAR WARFARE
A strange game this one.  Brought to you by Mark Sheeky, the author of
Overlander and other such goodies.  This is a 2 player game.  One
player controls Russia, the other player controls America.  The object
is to destroy the enemy with your nuclear arsenal.  The game is played
in turns.  A turn consists of selecting a launch site, setting the
launch heading and elevation and then firing.  It sounds good, it
looks good and it is good.  Another excellent production.


3180 FOOTBALL ICONS
Absolutely tons and tons and tons of football icons for everybody out
there.  All the teams from World Cup '94 are here.  All the teams from
the English Premier Leagues and Scottish Premier Leagues.
International & European teams and also special sections for Man Utd,
Newcastle Utd, Glasgow Rangers and Glasgow Celtic.  Loads and loads.


3181 MORPHY THE MAGICIAN AGA
The latest and first offering from Eric Schwartz in 1994.  A bit
short this one though.  It needs an AGA machine with at least 4 MB
RAM AND a Hard Drive.  (Not asking much is he?) A short anim of a
magician with an audience of one.  I cant really describe it any
other way.  If you like anims in general or you are a die-hard
Scwartz fan, then this is a must.  ** 4MB RAM & HARD DRIVE REQ **


3182 MORPHY THE MAGICIAN
This is the 2 MB version of the Morphy Magician anim.  This version
will work on ALL machines.  It is exactly the same only running in a
lower resolution and with less colours by the looks of it.  ** 2MB RAM
REQ **


3183A TRANCENTRAL WORLD
Rob:  Its a rave disk.  And I actually like it.  In fact I love it.
Its brilliant.  There are 8 tracks on these three disks.  The samples
are very clear the modules are long and to top it all, they are
actually very very good.  It must be something special if I like it.
But buy this and I guarantee that you'll love it.  Probably the best
rave music set of all time.  ABSOLUTELY SUPERB!!!!!!!


3183B TRANCENTRAL WORLD
Disk 2 of TRANCENTRAL WORLD


3183C TRANCENTRAL WORLD
Disk 3 of TRANCENTRAL WORLD


3185 TUMBLER STREET & QUADRIX
2 good games on here.  One, Quadrix, you will have seen before, but
tumbler street is a new one although it was written in 1989.
Basically there is a digitized piccy of a man with three `tumblers'.
He puts a red ball under one of them.  You bet your money, he jiggles
them around, and you guess which one its under.


3186 LEARN & PLAY PLUS
Lots of educational programs on here for age ranges 4 to 40.
BlackboardMaths, Flower Garden, Tug, Addidrill, Multidrill, Spellquiz,
Cat & Mouse, Concentration, Galactic Worm and Shark.


3187 ROBS HOT STASH #8
Yet another utils disk has arrived.  Volume 8 is here.  I have managed
to squeeze lots and lots of stuff on here this time.  Herewe go.  Acid
Box V1.0, Aive V1.7, AmiCDROM V1.11, Convert HAM V1.3, How Many V2.02,
Dialling Codes V1.1, Fast JPEG V1.1, Flush V2.2b, Gifblast, XSize
V1.0, Rolodex V1.1 and AsciioMatic V0.8.


3188A MASQUERADE (AGA ONLY)
A strange puzzle type game where the object is to collect all the
diamonds without destroying any of them by triggering off explosions.
Explosions can be made by dropping barrels etc on the diamonds.  There
are ten levels in all and the puzzles should keep anyone with half a
brain going for quite a while.


3188B MASQUERADE (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of MASQUERADE


3189 GALAXY WARS
Another coin-op classic conversion from Kev Gallagher, the author of
Space Invasion 2.  The object of the game (as all you old farts will
remember, Rob included) is to release a missile from your launcher at
the bottom of the screen and guide it to the top to destroy the alien
nastys.  Very nicely done if you like shoot-em ups.


3190 WAC AMOS MAGAZINE
Another disk magazine for all you Amos users out there.  On here are
guides, tutorials, source code etc etc.  All versions of Amos are
supported.  The authors would like you out there to support them so
why not send them an article or two.


3191 AMBASSADOR FRUIT MACHINE
This is a copy of a real fruit machine from Austria (or so the docs
say).  There are loads of features on here including nudges, cashpots
etc etc and also some MAJOR spelling mistakes on the main screen (but
we won't embarass the lad anymore cause its a good game).


3192 ROBS HOT STASH #9 (KS2+ REQ)
Bloody hell, yet another hot stash from yours truly bringing you the
best in hot utils from around the globe.  On here we have:- Exa V0.1,
Formula 1 Grand Prix Editor V1.02, MenuLauncher V1.2, Newext V1.0,
MemInfo V3.00, PackDisk V1.1, SmallPlayer V1.0a, SnoopLibs V0.9,
Zaphod V1.0, AddPower V37.14, AppMenu V2.0, PicBoot V2.1 and finally
Freecopy V1.9.  What a lot we got eh!!!!


3193A RAM JAM:IT CAN'T BE DONE DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Nice demo starting of with a nicked effect from the Fairlight 242
demo.  Then onto a screen with some bad language (cant be helped,
sorry) and then moving swiftly on to a 6 sided texture mapped object.
Each side has a different map.  There are 2 fast moving texture
mapped citys and some more swirly colours and stuff before finally
displaying a screen of more bad language.  Like it or loathe it.


3193B RAM JAM:IT CAN'T BE DONE DEMO (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of IT CAN'T BE DONE


3194A NGC:ARTIFICIAL PARADISE
A stunning opening picture of an evil court jester.  Then onto a fast
scrolling landscape in full screen and a nice smear effect logo.  Some
nice line effects follow and then a ride down an unoriginal
multicoloured dot tunnel.  Onto a 3D spinning cube with a different
texture on each side then a ride on a VERY original texture mapped
tunnel.  Ending with a nice `control the scrolltext' part.


3194B NGC:ARTIFICIAL PARADISE
Disk 2 of ARTIFICIAL PARADISE


3195 IRON MAIDEN CARDSET
Yet another cardset for Klondyke AGA this time featuring...


3196 SANDMAN CARDS
The cardsets are coming thick and fast now.  This one features images
by Dave McKean from the SandMan comic books published by DC Comics.
These covers are intricate paintings and collages and are considered
fine art.


3197A EAGLEPLAYER V1.52 (KS2+)
The latest version of one of the best module players around features
loads of little bells and whistles which you can tweak, including
Graphic Equalisers etc.  Eagleplayer can play around 100 different
module formats, and is all in all an excellent package.


3197B EAGLEPLAYER V1.52 (KS2+)
Disk 2 of EAGLEPLAYER V1.52


3198 KIRKS ASSORTED SAMPLES #1
Around 60 assorted samples on here, the majority of them are Bass and
Synth, for use with your favourite tracker program.


3201 ACT OF WAR MISSIONS
There are 3 AOW missions on here all set around the Aliens Special
Edition theme.  They will only work with the REGISTERED version of
AOW.


3202 DANCE WAR (ZONE AGAINST ZONE)
Techno Techno Techno Techno.  Crap Crap Crap Crap.


3203 DEVOLUTIONS SLIDESHOW #3
The artwork on this disk has all been produced with a variety of
RayTracing and Art packages on the Amiga.  There are 9 pictures on
here all revolving around the space/sci-fi/fantasy theme.  If you are
looking for some good raytraced artwork then this is good to unpack.


3204 EPOCH V3.0
Epoch Master has been designed as a powerful Time Management system,
capable of dates from 01.01.1583 to 31.01.2999.  The 'Diary' allows
data entry about particular dates with search, edit and indexing
features.  'Year-at-a-glance' is available, as well as a powerful
address/phone book and database system which are integrated, as well
as an 'Accounts' section and 'List' creator.  Registered version
allows more flexible printing options.  **SHAREWARE**


3205 THE PYRAMID GAME
Rob:  "A puzzle game.  The screen is set up as a grid.  The object of
the game is to place cubes on the grid.  Each cube has four different
colured sides.  You must place the cubes in the grid so that the
sides touch another cube of the same colour.  (That was the crappest
description I have ever written.  Anybody who is any wiser about this
game is extremely clever.  Its not easy you know!!!!)"


3206 DISK MAG CREATOR
This SHAREWARE Version includes:  Articles with up to 4800 lines of
text!  (That's 200 pages of 24 lines) Only 10 Index Pages can be
shown.  (A possible 200 Articles.  ie.  20 Articles per Index Page)
You can display pictures with Low-Res or Hi-Res with limited size !
(320 * 200 or 640 * 200 - Please load Pics/xxxx.Pic for size) Still
use three music trax.  Now features NEW music player routines to
handle new Protracker commands.  Many bug fixes.  Now has option for
one INTRO pic.  (Previously none!)


3207 JPM'S AGA PICTURES #10
Only 4 pictures on here, but they are all extremely high quality.  All
in GIF format.


3208 POLKA BROS:GEVALIA (AGA ONLY)
Polka Bros are excellent at coming up with their own unique style of
demos:  intense, humorous, always fresh with new effects, tied in
perfectly with a fast and funky soundtrack.  Gevalia is no exception.
On the menu we have:  abstract vector patterns a cartoon crocodile, a
very strange stylised animation, a twisty cube-within-a-cube, a
delicious new swirly pattern routine, a picture, a super speedy tunnel
sequence, the credits and an abrupt end.  Superb stuff.


3209 POLKA BROS:ARIEL ULTRA DEMO
Another good demo from PB.  Opens up with a nice plasma routine and
then onto some kind of spinny thing, following a nice hand drawn piccy
of an Indian.  Then onto a weird pink, green and blue tunnel effecr
before finally ending with some super fast effects.


3210A FAIRLIGHT:LOVE DEMO
Starts with a very promising soundtrack followed by a complicated
spinning vector `Love' logo.  A rather sick picture of Marilyn Monroe
appears and swiftly onto a texture mapped jelly cube.  Another `Love'
logo, this time its raytraced with some spinny balls, and finishing
off with some morphing dot effects, zoom rotated fractals and a
stunning Fairlight logo.


3210B FAIRLIGHT:LOVE DEMO
Disk 2 of FAIRLIGHT:LOVE


3211 REDNEX:QUACKBUSTED II
A very short demo this one but with some good effects.  Guitar music
kicks in first of all.  Jelly vectors, Tunnel effects, 80 spinnng
cubes on same screen and AGA plasma effects.


3212 MORTAL GODS RAVE SAMPLES 
5 disks of samples for you to use in your next Top 10 hit called.  `I
can only find one note on my keyboard' - disks 3212 to 3216.


3213 MORTAL GODS RAVE SAMPLES 
See 3212


3214 MORTAL GODS RAVE SAMPLES 
See 3212


3215 MORTAL GODS RAVE SAMPLES 
See 3212


3216 MORTAL GODS RAVE SAMPLES 
See 3212


3217 NOSTROMO CHEATS V3.0
Literally thousands of game cheats, solves and solutions on here.  The
disk uses Disk Expander so there is double the stuff you would find on
a normal disk.


3218 VARK CLI UTILITIES 5
Loads and loads of utils on here including ABackup, AGMS Record Sound,
BigAnim, ToggleClick, C64 Saver, PPShow 4, PCRestore, and many many
more.


3219 CALORIE COUNTER DIARY
Calorie Counter Diary is a program intended to be used by anyone,
dieting or not, wishing to keep to a calorie controlled diet.  If
you're dieting, to lose or gain weight, this program is definitely
for you.  If not, this program can keep an eye on the type of
nutrients that you are consuming.  This program can be used by
several people at the same time, since it keeps an individual record
for each user.  Ideal for use in health clubs.  **SHAREWARE**


3220 HDCLICK V2.7
HDClick is a program-selector/HD-menu.  With HDClick, programs can be
started very easy by selecting gadgets with your mouse.  You can
choose between a Screen or only a small window on the Workbench.
HDClick also has an AppIcon and AppWindow-function that make it
possible to easily view pictures, texts or decrunch files by dragging
Icons on the AppIcon/AppWindow.  **SHAREWARE**


3221 BAZZA AND RUNT
Gorgeous colourful gfx, sound effects and music, add atmosphere to a
very proffessional AGA platform game.  Destroy all the baddys, collect
the fruit and letters to reach the next level.  A cross between Bubble
Bobble and a stack of other platformers.  **Very highly recommended**
**SHAREWARE**


3222 DANGERMOUSE
Basically, this is the old classic hunchback game except you play the
role of Dangermouse and you must rescue Penfold.  The object of the
game is to dodge the obstacles and ring the bell at the end of each
screen.  Good stuff.


3223 ROME
An excellent educational package covering lots of events during the
Roman era.  Pictures, text, information, and even animations.  Superb
for kids interested in this kind of thing.


3224 BLITZ SHAPE EDITOR V1.1
A shape editor for Blitz Basic **SHAREWARE**


3225 RHYTHM ATTACK #1
8 rhythms and drum loops for you to use in next masterpiece.


3226 RHYTHM ATTACK #2
10 rhythms and drum loops for you to use in next masterpiece.


3227 EVIL INSECTS
Kill insects.  To do this you have a gun, but with this gun you can't
kill those insects directly.  You'll have to shoot at the ceiling,
from which a magic stone will fall.  This magic stone is able to kill
an insect.  When you fire your gun, the main character will aim at
the ceiling with an angle of about 45 degrees.  This means that you
cannot aim yourself.  Interesting.


3228 PLEASE RELEASE ME
Very short but very funny animation of a singing ballon.  ** 2 MB REQ
**


3229 THE HIGH SPOT FUNKY DANCER
An animation of a bloke who likes to dance on the roofs of tall
buildings.  Extremely funny.  ** 2 MB REQ **


3230 THE TEAPOT AND THE ANGLEPOISE LAMP
Short anim of a teapot and a lamp who dont get on with each other
very well. ** 2 MB REQ **


3231 ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE 2
An extremely sick and gory Operation Wolf style shooting game.
Based, I presume, on George A Romeros classic Night of the Living
Dead.  Basically shoot the zombies and collect the extra weaponry.
Reasonable graphics and sound.


3233 ROBS HOT GAMES #6
Only the latest and greatest games on MY compilations.  This disk is
chock full with Automobiles V1.11, KidsPool, Awarri V1.1 and the best
version of Defender available.


3234 ROBS HOT GAMES #7 (AGA ONLY)
Only two games on here but are only for the A1200 & A4000.  Yatzooie 2
AGA is a version of Yatzi and needs some FAST RAM (dont forget now),
and Knotty AGA is a sliding picture puzzle game in 256 colour.


3235 ROBS HOT STASH #10
The latest pile of utils to be compiled by me are AddressManager V2.0,
AFCopy V3.601, AmigaGuideWriter V1.01, AppleMania V2.0, ARTM V2.03,
DMSWinTurbo V 1.12, TitleBarClock V2.52, DosPrefs V1.1, Tracer V1.01,
FastMaths, ToneFinder, MuchMore V4.4, VirusZII V1.09, WBInfo V1.1,
BMenu V2.2 and finally IntuiDMS V2.2.


3236 SUPERLEAGUE V3.50
SuperLeague is a football league editor which can handle leagues with
upto 26 teams using either a two or three points for a win system.
This is sufficient to maintain most football leagues.  The disk also
includes a shareware version of SuperLeague V4.00.  There are far more
features but there's not enough space here.


3237 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #8
13 new CG Fonts for you to use with ProPage 2.1+ or Wordsworth or
whatever else utilises them.


3238A MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II
The best set of raytraced AGA pics I have EVER seen.  Converted from
24 Bit, these is the most stunning collection of pics you will
probably get for quite a while.  Nothing else in the library comes
even remotely close.
** 3 MB RAM REQUIRED **


3238B MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II
Disk 2 of MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II


3238C MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II
Disk 3 of MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II


3238D MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II
Disk 4 of MINI AGA SLIDESHOW II


3239 PUNTER V1.0
A superb horse racing management simulator for upto 4 players.  3
skill levels.  Nice graphics and sound fx.  Bet on the gee gees, buy
and sell, visit different tracks, and loads more features besides.


3240A STARWARS SLIDESHOW AGA 
2 disks filled with not many 256 colour Star Wars piccys.  Excellent
quality stills for all you fanatics out there like me....


3240B STARWARS SLIDESHOW AGA 
Disk 2 of STARWARS SLIDESHOW


3241 ROBS ROCKERS #1
5 reasonably good tunes on here, written in Octamed.


3242 ROBS ROCKERS #2
6 tunes on here, all cover versions of classic tracks by the likes of
Gary Numan, Depeche Mode and OMD.  Written in Octamed


3243A APOLLO 11
This program is a presentation about the Apollo 11 mission to send man
to the moon.  It is written in Hyperbook and is a first class
educational program for anyone interested in this sort of thing.
There is tons and tons of information spanning the two disks.  Disk 2
is filled with sampled quotes relative to the lunar landing.  If you
register the program, you will recieve a third disk filled with
pictures.  **SHAREWARE**


3243B APOLLO 11
Disk 2 of APOLLO 11


3244 ELLE MACPHERSON CARD SET
Another cardset for Klondyke AGA, this one being of `The Body'.  There
are some lovely close ups of her and a couple of nude ones if you look
close enough.


3245 ASSASSINS AUDIO MAGIC 8
The latest collection of music utils from the ASI mob.  On here we
have DeluxeMusic Player V1.0, FMSynth V3.2, MIDIPacket Master,
OctamedPlayer V5.10 and XModule V2.5.


3246 FONT FARM 13
This disk is chock full with 50 bitmap fonts for you to use in Dpaint,
Scala, &tc.


3247 FONT FARM 14
Yet again a bitmap fonts disk.  This time we have 60 fonts, again to
use in Dpaint, Scala, &tc.


3248 GAMES GALORE 17
A wackinng great big chocka block 11 games on this disk.  On here we
have :- Asteroids II, Turbo Hockey 2, Son of Blagger, Cardz, Digger,
15, Boulder, Columns, Mines, Boxman and Tetris.


3249 GAMES GALORE 18
Another big pile of games on this compilation.  BlackJack V1.11,
CaveRunner, DenverDuk, harrier, Ladder V1.0, MineSweeper V2.7,
PBSwitch V1.5, Pegged, Trick or Treat, WarZone and Atoms.


3250 ABANK V1.01
ABank is a domestic bank account software.  The idea is simple.  When
you make an operation on your account, you signal it to the software
which up- date permanently your account state.  ABank can load
simultaneously more than ten accounts, automatically sorting the
operations, possessing a notepad, loads powerpacked files, makes
graphical stats, printing with filter and is AGIP compatible.


3251 THE GOLFERS GUIDE
A brilliant animation by the author of the Suicide Man series.  It
revolves around certain dirty and nasty goings on to cheat and win at
golf.  If you are a fan of Suicide Man, then you must get this disk.
** 1.5 MB RAM REQ **


3252 BLACK DAWN 2
Black dawn 2 is a single player 3D roleplaying game viewed from a
first person perspective.  The mazes are maze like constructions
composed of walls doors traps and computer terminals....All manner of
things, most of which are interactive via a simple mouse click.
**SHAREWARE**


3253 SENSITIVE
You are in control of a white and blue blob, which has to cross a
series of tiles to reach an exit.  When you cross a yellow tile it is
destroyed.  All yellow tiles must be destroyed before you are allowed
to complete the level.  Other tiles have diffeent properties.


3254A MAG E #4
The latest (and quite possibly greatest!!) edition of the disk mag
dedicated to all you cult Tv fanatics out there.  Whether it be Star
Trek, Dr Who, Red Dwarf or if you are just generally interested in
Sci-Fi and fantasy related topics, then this is a must buy.


3254B MAG E #4
Disk 2 of MAG E #4


3255 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #9
13 new CG Fonts for you to use with ProPage 2.1+ or Wordsworth or
whatever else utilises them.


3256 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #10
14 new CG Fonts for you to use with ProPage 2.1+ or Wordsworth or
whatever else utilises them.


3257 AMIGA FAX V1.40
AmigaFax allows you to send and receive facsimile information from
your Amiga with a FaxModem.  Received faxes can be viewed, printed,
forwarded to other fax machines, and saved as ILBM files.  Transmit
text, ILBM graphics, and combinations of these as faxes.  Using the
AmigaFax command language you can add text from any Amiga font, along
with logos and ILBM graphics.  AmigaFax can be set up to
automatically send batch-process, send, autoanswer and forward at
specific times.  Highly configurable.  **SHAREWARE**


3258 FORTRESS + KARATE MASTER
Playable game demos of the F1 Licenseware titles above.  Fortress is a
war Arcade/strategy game based on the likes of MEGALOMANIA and
POPULOUS, with Excellent GFX, sound FX and an addiction level that
will keep you glued to the monitor for simply yonks!  Karate Master is
a serious Karate Sim, it has all the speed and variety of moves and
excitement of the real sport.  Your machine will need at least 1.5
Megabytes of memory to run KM.  ** FULL VERSIONS OF THESE PROGRAMS ARE
AVAILABLE AT 3.99 EACH **


3259 TOUCH N GO + ART SCHOOL
Crippled product demos of the F1 Licenseware titles above.  Touch N
Go - all the ingredients of a great puzzle game.  Simple gameplay and
concept, addictive and original.  100 levels to play, with passwords,
parralax scrolling, wicked backdrops, cool music and sfx.  Art School
is an awesome art package that can do everything you would expect
from a commercial product and more.  Aimed at the younger artist with
lots of built in brushes and background pictures ** FULL VERSIONS OF
THESE PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE AT 3.99 AND 4.99 EACH **


3260 BOWL SECRETARY
A ten pin bowling scoring database thingy.  You build a league data
base containing teams, bowlers and subs.  Each week you enter each
bowler's scores and the team's win/loss record and 'RUN' this new
data through the program.  In return for this effory on your part
you're rewarded with a fairly complete report on teams and bowlers.
** SHAREWARE ** ** ALTHOUGH THE PROGRAM IS A BIT OLD NOW **


3261 KNIT V1.01 AND VIDEOMAXE V4.20
Knit V1.01 is a program that converts an IFF picture file into a
knitting pattern - but it can only handle 8 colours or less.  Knit
bases all of its calculations on the size of a standard monitor
screen, meaning your finished knitting should be about the size of
your screen.  You can use Knit if you have a large or small monitor,
it's just that the size you see is NOT what you will get.  Videomaxe
is by far the best Video cataloguing database on the Amiga.  Hundreds
of features ** KS2+ REQ **


3262A MOVIEGUIDE (AGA ONLY)
MovieGuide is an extremely extensive film database.  A hard drive and
an AGA machine is required to run the program.  It contains thousands
of films in hundreds of different categorys and gives relevant
information to that movie.  There is a very flexible search and sort
facility allowing you to find a film by Director, Title, Year etc etc.


3262B MOVIEGUIDE (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of MOVIEGUIDE


3263 WORKBENCH 2 TUTORIAL
An excellent tutorial/guide for all you users who are having trouble
working your way through AmigaDOS.  This disk only covers KS2 (and
rightly so) although it should be helpful to all you new A1200 users
out there as well.  Information is given on ALL the dos commands
available + info on directorys, using Shell/CLI, opening windows and
much much more.  ** KS2+ REQ **


3264 FLINTSTONES CLIPART
With all the hype surrounding these characters at the moment, we just
couldnt resist.  Full colour, full screen images of all the people in
Bedrock.  Clips are in IFF format and so will work fine with ANY
Paint/DTP package.  There are also a couple of Disney clips on here
too.


3265 SPECTRUM EMULATOR V2.0
The latest version of the Speccy Emulator has arrived.  With the
amount of Spectrum Game packs weve been selling of late, there must be
a LOT of old farty nostalgia freaks out there.  There is also a
SpecConvert program on here which always you to convert your snapshots
to the PC to run with there various emulators.  On here as well are 4
classic Speccy games.


3266 MAGIC WORKBENCH EXTRAS
A big pile of new icons and backdrops for all you Magic WB users out
there.


3267A STARWOIDS
This game is based on a variety of old classic shooting games
including the likes of Thrust and Asteroids. <It's brilliant.>


3267B STARWOIDS
Disk 2 of STARWOIDS


3268 CCCP DEMO
Excellent techno demo like Jesus on E's.  Lots of spinny swirly
effects backed by a hardcore rave track.


3269 DESPAIR:INTENSE DEMO
Starts off with picture zoom rotation, some superb line effects
including tunnels etc etc.  And some bars.  All topped off with a
ravey track.  Nice.


3270 TRICK OR TREAT (AGA ONLY)
A superb 2 player DOOM clone with loads of power ups etc etc.
Extremely fast texture mapping and very nice gfx and sfx.  If you only
buy one PD game this year for your AGA machine, then make sure its
this one.


3271 TIMEGUARDIAN V1.0
Easily start events, that have to be done at certain times or dates
on your computer.  You also can write log files to disk, where you
can see machine activity.  Log different projects - you see in the
log files, when you worked on a certain things.  Log-analyser has a
clear GUI.  It also starts actions (commands or scripts) that you
want to be executed regularly or at specified dates or hours.  **
SHAREWARE **


3272A CHANNEL Z #6
The latest issue of the disk mag dedicated to AGA machine owners.
Loads of stuff on here including reviews, letters, Q+A, Blitz basic
tutorial, Computers in movies, a joystick tester and a demo.  Get your
copy NOW.


3272B CHANNEL Z #6
Disk 2 of CHANNEL Z #6


3273 TELESUBTITLE 
This program allows you to create Subtitles for all your home movies
etc.  Written in Amos, it uses Bobs instead of Fonts so that you can
use "Cut 'N' Paste" DPaint type Characters with your SubTitle
Sequence.  Your Bobs can have upto 16 colours in them.  There is also
the FINAL version of TeleTitler 2 on here as well.  ** SHAREWARE **


3274 AMOS EXTENSIONS
This disk contains seven PD/Shareware AMOS extensions which can be
used with AMOS and AMOS Pro (a couple are not compatible with AMOS
Pro).  The extensions in this disk are:- Amos Opal, EasyLife, JD Lib
V4.6, LDOS V2.5d, LSerial V2.5d, Stars and TurboV1.9.


3275 CHARLIE CHATTERBOX
Charlie Chatterbox is based on the old Spectrum game Splat!  by
Incentive Software the only major difference being that Splat!
scrolled the screen in a semi-random way whereas 'Charlie' follows a
set route.  The idea is to eat as many of the apples as possible
whilst avoiding getting trapped behind walls as the screen scrolls.
The only way you can die is to be forced into one of the sides of the
playing area.  ** SHAREWARE **


3276 THE SUMMONING
This is an adventure game mouse point and click type.  The summoner is
in the building you are in.  He goes around killing random people for
no reason.  You must stop him.  Or will he stop you?  He has locked
the building up, so you cant escape out of it, and as well as killing
anyone he finds, he is looking for you!  He has a gun.  You have a
gun.  But your gun may only have one bullet in it, so may only be used
once.  Loads of different rooms and puzzles to solve.  ** SHAREWARE **


3277 ANTWARS V1.9
You probably all know what this game is now.  Basically its a cross
between Cannon Fodder and Lemmings played with guns.  A 2 player game
where you must wipe out your opponent.  Added features include planes
and jeeps but there are many more features in the full version.  **
SHAREWARE **


3278 XENOMORPH
The most proffessionally put together PD game i have ever seen.  The
gfx and sfx are easily commercial quality.  The game is similar to
Aien Breed.  You must search the sectors of each level and destroy
every alien egg you locate blasting all manner of baddies along the
way.  Fantastic.


3279A MECHANETIX ALIEN SCIENCE AGA
Stunning raytraced pictures for all you AGA owners out there based
around the Alien series.  Excellent quality.


3279B MECHANETIX ALIEN SCIENCE AGA
Disk 2 of MECHANETIX ALIEN SCIENCE


3280A AMIGADEUS II
Rob Baxter back on form after his complete slating in CU Amiga doing
what he does best, i.e.  the classical stuff.  Here he is with more
of Mozarts most popular work including Rondo `Alla Turka', Piano
Sonata in B flat (Allegro, Adagio, Allegreto), Duettino and the
number one selling record of 1839, Symphony No 40.


3280B AMIGADEUS II
Disk 2 of AMIGADEUS II


3281 LEAGUE SOCCER CARDS
The latest version of this ever popular football/card game.  Turn over
the cards and match them up to win the game.


3282 PROTRACKER 3.15
The latest version of the most popular music making program on the
Amiga.  New front end and loads of features.  Comes complete with 14
drum samples and 10 drum loops.


3283 DRUM SAMPLES 
121 Drum samples in both IFF and RAW formats to use with
Med/Octamed/Protracker or whatever else.


3284 GUITAR SAMPLES
23 massive guitar samples for you to use in your favourite tracker.


3285 ANALOG BASS SAMPLES
Stacks and stacks of samples for you to use in your favourite tracker
program.


3286 DRUM LOOPS AND SAMPLES
10 high quality drum loops and 4 drum samples for any tracker.


3287A WRESTLING
This is a reasonably good wrestling game for 1 or 2 players.  There
are quite a few moves to be mastered, supposedly.  The game is quite
old but it's fairly original.  he gfx and sound are a bit ropey but
what the hell when Ttheres nothing else around.  Choose from 3
different opponents and get well and truly slaughtered cause its rock
hard.  ** 2 DISK DRIVES
REQUIRED **


3287B WRESTLING
Disk 2 of WRESTLING


3288 BACMAN (AGA ONLY)
An AGA pacman game with some lovely graphics and sound effects.  16
levels are available on this version although there are 100 in the
registered version.  Excellent.  ** SHAREWARE **


3289 VIDEOMAXE V4.33
The latest version of this superb video catologuing system.  Literally
dozens of functions and features abound to help gain the most from
your video collection.  Extensive search and sort facilities are
available as well as a whole manner of other things.  ** SHAREWARE **


3290 DATABASES
3 databases on this disk.  Recipebox V2.2 is GUI-based and designed
for cataloguing and printing recipe cards.  52 different categories,
each category can hold 52 recipes.  VideoBase V1.2 is a databse
designed for keeping track of all your videotapes.  2 sort styles,
easy print options.  PVC V1.0 is also a video database - allows you
to keep a record of what's on each video, how long each entry is,
what channel recordings are made from etc.  PVC will even estimate
remaining tape space.  ** ALL PROGRAMS ARE SHAREWARE **


3291 DFA
DFA is probably by far the best address utility ever seen on the
Amiga computer.  There are hundreds of features, including:  OS2.0
"Look and Feel", Locale support, OS3.0 support, Commodity support,
full Keyboard operation, ARexx, font-sensitive, memory optimisaton
via modularity, memory pools and shared libraries, external file
suport, network support and full configuration.  Anyone looking for a
serious address util, this one is miles ahead of the rest.  ** HARD
DRIVE REQUIRED, SHAREWARE **


3292 LOAN AND ACCOUNTS PACKAGES
A few utilities for anyone wanting to work out mortgage or loan
figures or just do general accounts.  On here we have:- The Home
Accountant V1.2, Amortize V1.16, Financa V1.4, FKM V1.32, HomeBudget
V1.3 and LoanCalc V2.0d.


3293 EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
4 educational programs on here for anyone aged 8 to 80.  MorseTrainer
V1.2 and RMorse v1.1 are both Morse code tutor packages.  Morsetrainer
can even take an ASCII text file and convert it into morse code for
you.  Excellent stuff.  EnsembleVerbes is a very nice, easy to use
French verb tutor and finally, Ready Robot is a Kids education package
covering around 15 different things.  Word searches, puzzles, games,
etc etc.


3294 MULTIPRINT 4
7 utils on here to print various things out with.  Epoch Master V1.1,
Print Manager V2.0, LabSelect V4, PhoneIt V1.3, TapeCover v1.0,
McMaster V1.2 and finally Banner V1.2.


3295 AUDIO MAGIC 7
Music utilities galore compiled by the Assassins.  This latest
offering contains Quadra Composer V2.03, Multi Ripper V3.0, Small
Player V1.0a and Mod2Midi V1.1.


3296 NANOFLY
An excellent shootem-up with some hugh levels which should keep you
entertained for ages.  You pilot the NanoFly into the Nano-Tech Tower.
It is no easy ride though.  While inside your aim is to destroy as
many of the purple floppy disks as possible.  There are a number of
items to help you.  These include extra flies, energy replacers,
rocket decoys, restart points and various other stuff.


3297 ACCOUNT MASTER V3c
A fully integrated home finance application.  Runs in a WB2/3 screen
will good GUI.  Has an ability to maintain a continuous record of all
transactions on any account using the Amiga's internal clock as a
date reference with automatic update.Comprehensive reporting
capabilities which include 3 dimensional code related bar graphs,
balance charts and a wide range of printing options.  ** SHAREWARE **


3298 THE MAD PREACHER
A 4 track rave music disk which features the mad preacher.  Or in
laymans terms, one of those guys on American TV who tells you to give
them all your money, IN THE NAME OF GOD, and that TV and all modern
acts of everyday life are evil.  Not bad at all.


3299 CYBERPUNK #2
A disk mag dedicated to all sci-fi/fantasy/futuristic freaks out
there.  The mag covers loads of interesting sections about Internet
and the like.  Also there are some articles by Mike Cobley (one of
the best cyberpunk writers around!!) There are also some pictures and
a nice anim by Tobias Richter.


3300 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #11
10 more CG fonts to use with your favourite program.


3301 PAINT IT!
This is a colouring book for kids, it has loads of icons for you to
press and each has it`s own unique sound!!.  This is the cut down
version, so it only has 5 pictures, the full program has loads for
you to colour in.  You can choose a colour, a pattern or a solid to
draw with.  Fill an area, load and save pictures, &tc. * SHAREWARE *


3302A NLP RENDERSHOW (AGA ONLY)
Superb raytraced piccys for your A1200/4000.


3302B NLP RENDERSHOW (AGA ONLY)
Disk 2 of NLP RENDERSHOW


3303 REVENGE ANIMATION
A reasonable cartoon style anim all the way from down under.  Simliar
to RoadHog, it tells the story of an over ambitious driver battling
against an army of hedghogs.  ** 2 MB Req **


3304 SEED OF DARKNESS
Another graphic adventure from Asa Margetts.  Set way back in history,
you must save the planet (or something like that anyway), by defeating
the mad axemen, ogres and other such medieval nonsense.  NSEW, Pickup,
Drop.  All the usual stuff you would find in this type of game.
** SHAREWARE **


3305 MARBLES
This is a very annoying, infuriating but BRILLIANT puzzle game.  The
object is simple, guide the marble to the exit.  There are many
obstacles in your way though.  One way blocks, teleports, exploding
blocks etc etc.  Highly recommended.


3306 SOLO ASSAULT
A cross between Wing Commander and Return of the Jedi.  The game is
split into various sections.  Each with a theme.  Either dodging the
asteroids, shooting the enemy planes or lightsabre fighting.  The gfx
and sfx are superb and the whole game has a very professional feel to
it.  A must if you like this sort of thing.  ** SHAREWARE **


3307 MORE ACT OF WAR MISSIONS
Another disk of missions for the registered version of AOW V1.4


3308 SCOTTISH FOOTBALL MANAGER
One of the best management games in PD to date.  Take part in the
league and cup runs trying to make your team one of the best Europe.
Alter the formations, gain sponsorship and many other things.  Great
stuff.  ** SHAREWARE **


3309 THE GREAT GOLD RAID
An very old but very addictive VIC 20 conversion.  Yep indeedy.
Harking back to the days when 8k was far too much to fill this game
was doing the rounds.  Basically you must go get the bag of gold coins
and take it back to your `pad'.  There are various creepy crawlies
wandering around the screen which are quite harmless until you get the
gold.  Then they go bananas chasing you everywhere.
One for nostalgia freaks.  ** SHAREWARE **


3310 PRO GAMBLE V1.0
Basically, Pro-Gamble is a horse racing prediction system that works!
Pro-Gamble isn`t designed to predict winners though.  It`s aim is to
predict which horse is most likely to be placed in a race.  Obviously,
this is useless unless the odds are good, which is why Pro-Gamble will
always try to find the most likely horse WITH the best odds.  This
system is more successful than it sounds, as you will find out.
** SHAREWARE **


3311 MARTIAL SPIRIT
This is a reasonable beatem-up game which should appeal to kids
(cause there ain't no blood and guts).  A few moves are on offer
including flying kicks, punches and the like.  Also each character
has a `special' move.  If you register for the full version, there
are 5 characters you can choose to fight with and 2 bosses.  Nice gfx
although the sfx are a bit tacky.  ** SHAREWARE **


3312 KIDS DISK 5
3 good educational programs on here for young kids.  RoboProgo and
Takeaways are both maths learning aids and AlphaSnap is a program for
teaching the alphabet.


3313 SUPERLEAGUE V3.51
The latest version of this league editor.  For a full description see
disk number 3236.  The only difference is that this version is FULLY
hard disk installable.  ** SHAREWARE **


3314 FRUITMANIA
A superb 4 reel FruitMachine game.  Normal rules apply, get the
numbered reels to allow you access to the features, which there are
loads of including (22 in all) Bingo, Crazy Reels, Stop a Win, Stop a
Fruit, Reel Stop, &tc.  The gfx are very well drawn and presentation
is excellent.  ** SHAREWARE **


3315 DESKTOP MAGIC
A modular screensaver, with extra options allowing input events to
spawn custom requests <'disk inserted', 'closewindow'>, as well as
user-designable savers, audio-playback on screensave, 32 presets,
&tc.  Runs on Kickstart 1.3 and above.  Styleguide compliant,
supports all ANIM formats as well as third-party graphics cards.
Developer materials available. This is a demo-version - the full
thing <3 disks plus manual> is available for $39.95.


3316 STELLAR:MINDFLOW DEMO (AGA, 2MB FAST REQ)
An excellent AGA only demo extravaganza, released at the Assembly 94.
Starting off with a superb tune and jumping straight into some super
fast textured landscapes.  Other usuals are there including picture
zoom rotation and various other wondrous effects.


3317A BLUES SYMPHONIE
A 2 disk, 9 track musical masterpiece.  All the tracks are excellent
and the quality of the artwork is excellent.


3317B BLUES SYMPHONIE
Disk 2 of BLUES SYMPHONIE


3318 PRETTY GOOD PRIVACY (PGP) V2.3
PGP is a public key encryption package with it, you can secure
messages you transmit against unauthorized reading and digitally sign
them so that people receiving them can be sure they come from you.
PGP is well featured and fast, with sophisticated key management,
digital signatures, data compression, and good ergonomic design.  You
need a good knowledge of the CLI before even contemplating using this
program.  Novices should steer well clear.


3319 AMICOM V2.1
Amicom is a packet radio terminal program for the Commodore Amiga,
which is used for the wireless data transmissions of radio amateurs.
It works with almost any hardware (modem, TNC, multimode controller)
and gives you all the comfortable functions that are necessary in
packet radio use.


3320 PRODRAW GENIES
7 Genies on here for ProDraw.  Emboss/Engrave, Gridset, PieChart,
Scale by Percent, Select by Attribute, Star and ZoomWindow.


3321A JAPANESE DICTIONARY
This is the demo (Ver.  2) version of the Japanese Talking Picture
Dictionary.  Basically, it allows you to learn Japanese easily, by
showing pictures and speaking the words to you.  The words are all
common ones which would be used in everyday life.  An excellent
learning aid.  ** 2 DRIVES RECOMMENDED ** ** SHAREWARE **


3321B JAPANESE DICTIONARY
Disk 2 of JAPANESE DICTIONARY


3322 JAPANESE LANGUAGE AIDS
3 different programs on here which supplement the Japanese Dictionary.
Japanese Hiragana shows you how to write in Japanese, Japanese
Vocabulary is another language tutor which needs the registered
version of japanese dictionary to run.  Japanese WordaDay is a Pop-up
type Japanese vocabulary builder.  All good stuff.  ** SHAREWARE**


3323 COLONIAL CONQUEST 2
Colonial Conquest is a space-strategy game for one or two persons.
The aim of the game is to spread your civilization through the 26
earth-like planets of the universe map and to defend it from other
civilizations by building weapons and war ships.


3324 RELOKICK V1.41
This is the latest version of Relokick.  The only difference is that
you can now TOGGLE between NTSC/PAL and turn CPU caches on and off
using the mouse buttons.  Thats it.


3325 GIF BEAUTIES 11 (AGA ONLY)
The follow-on to the last batch - another 8 disks.  The rest you
know, or can guess.


3326 GIF BEAUTIES 12 (AGA ONLY)
 


3327 GIF BEAUTIES 13 (AGA ONLY)
 


3328 GIF BEAUTIES 14 (AGA ONLY)
 


3329 GIF BEAUTIES 15 (AGA ONLY)
 


3330 GIF BEAUTIES 16 (AGA ONLY)
 


3331 GIF BEAUTIES 17 (AGA ONLY)
 


3332 GIF BOOTIES  18 (AGA ONLY)
Underage shoe fetishists unite...


3333 STAR TREK CARDSET
Another cardset for Klondyke and Klondyke 2 AGA.  This time its for
the Trekkies out there.


3334 BETTY PAGE CARDSET
Betty Page was a wartime pinup.  Well now she's a Klondyke cardset.


3335 LOCKOUT V2.1c
LockOut is a Harddrive security system.  It features Multiple Users
with seperate passwords, Manager access and password, Launchable
scripts, Configurable write access to hard drive, User Logging, and a
Message Board and more.


3336A TIME ZONER
TimeZoner is a graphic adventure which uses a point and click interface
to operate.


3336B TIME ZONER
Disk 2 of TIME ZONER


3337A CHARLEY CAT 10:JAP CAT JAPES
The latest in a long line of cartoon anims starring Charley Cat. This
one sees him getting involved with an escaped Japanese cat who is an
expert in karate. It lasts for ages. Even longer then some cartoons on
TV. The gfx are excellent although the sound is a bit ropey, but you
can still follow the story. There are 2 versions on here for different
memory requirements but you need at least 2.5MB minimum.


3337B CHARLEY CAT 10:JAP CAT JAPES
Disk 2 of CHARLEY CAT 10


3337C CHARLEY CAT 10:JAP CAT JAPES
Disk 3 of CHARLEY CAT 10


3337D CHARLEY CAT 10:JAP CAT JAPES
Disk 4 of CHARLEY CAT 10


3337E CHARLEY CAT 10:JAP CAT JAPES
Disk 5 of CHARLEY CAT 10


3338 PICTURE MATHS
An educational maths package for young children.  By getting the
answers to the maths questions right, a picture is gradually revealed.
The quiz gets increasingly harder as the child gets more questions
right.  A scoreboard at the end of each section how the child has
done.  ** SHAREWARE **


3339 THE LOST PRINCE
This is the demo version of the CLR Licenseware title of the same
name.  You control Prince Rindlepoke, on a mission to do whatever
comes into his head.  This is a good RPG.


3340A TERM V4.0
Term is a telecommunications program designed for use with any Amiga
computer running KS2+ or higher.  Its features include:- Fast built-in
VT-220 terminal emulation, custom terminal emulation modules following
the `XEM 2.0' standard, Operates in any display environment, supports
all screen display modes, file transfer modules following the `XPR'
standard, File- and printer-capturing functions, Review-buffer
support, Powerful phone book and dialing functions, Style Guide'
compliant, Online-help with AmigaGuide, ARexx interface, and more.


3340B TERM V4.0
Disk 2 of TERM V4.0


3340C TERM V4.0
Disk 3 of TERM V4.0


3341 FINAL WRAPPER
FinalWrapper is a FinalWriter(TM) macro that wraps some piece of text
or a textblock around an oval!  It can also create amazing spiral text
effects with just a few mouseclicks and keystrokes!  There are 6 other
macros on here too which will create text waves and various others.


3342A MAGIC WORKBENCH EXTRA ICONS
Stacks and stacks and stacks of icons with a few backdrops for good
measure spread over these two disks.  There is also a demo version of
MagicWB 2 as well.


3342B MAGIC WORKBENCH EXTRA ICONS
Disk 2 of MAGIC WORKBENCH EXTRA ICONS


3343 EPU DISK STAKKER V1.63
EPU is a disk compression util which allows you to virtually double
the size of your harddrive - it's been around for some time but the
nice chaps at NAUG have added an installer which makes the program far
easier to use then ever before and easily puts it on level par with
Power Computing's program.  This program may NOT be sold by any other
PD library unless express permission has been granted by the Northern
Amiga Users Group, (they own the copyright to the installer!) So don't
take it off the CD and advertise it.  We'll be watching.


3345 AWARD MAKER 2
Create and print out awards and certificates for any occasion.  Use
any bitmap fonts you like, position headings and names etc etc.


3346 SPECTRUM EMULATOR V1.3
A very fast AGA only Spectrum Emulator.  It will use all the games
which work with the other Spectrum Emulator.


3347 ROBS HOT STASH #11
AddressManager V2.1, AdProToolBox V4.00, AmigaDOSGuide V1, OpusUtils,
ECSDiagnostics, ColCopy V1.0, CVMaker V3, NoDOS V1.0, PointerEyes
V1.0, ReturnOpus, SerMouse V1.1a, DFX, VStation V1.0, Stretch V1.00,
Starsky V1.00 and HotMaps.


3348 ROBS HOT STASH #12 
CallerID V2, CloudsAGA V1.01, CXHandler V1.5, FractalAGA V1.3,
MonitorInfo V37.4, The Secret Key V1.1, ImageDex V2.1 and StickIt V2.


3349A GIRLS OF ERIC 
This is a brilliant two disk slideshow featuring all the characters
from Eric Schwartzs' animations.  There is also a load of written
information about each character telling you which animations they
were featured in, why they were created etc etc.


3349B GIRLS OF ERIC 
Disk 2 of GIRLS OF ERIC 


3350 ROBS HOT GAMES #8
GreenHouseAGA, WipeOut, BoomerangMan and International Espionage.


3351 VIRUS WORKSHOP V4.0
VirusWorkshop is the latest and possibly best Virus Killer on the
Amiga.  It will get rid of a large number of trojans, and is excellent
for general file/sector checking on hard drive or on floppy.  It will
also check memory.


3352 SOME JUSTICE DEMO 94
-------------------------
Yes mister, I'll take two please! This is the best demo of Summer '94 by a
long shot! It's a sound and vision extravaganza, with the best soundtrack
ever to grace an Amiga demo. Released to promote a new EP from Urban
Shakedown, it's a remix of Some Justice, the hardcore anthem of 1992,
produced by Urban Shakers themselves, and reworked into a colossal
bass-heavy jungle stomper. Stick this through a decent hi-fi and you just
won't believe the sub-bass!
** 2.5 MB REQ ** ** 030/040 ENHANCED VERSION AVAILABLE **

3353 STAR WARS CARDSET
----------------------
Not another cardset for Klondike surely. Yep indeedy, this time featuring
all your favourite characters from one of the best movies of all time.
(IMO).

3354 FRIENDS OF PAULA #6
------------------------
MED modules of the highest quality. Only two on this disk but they are a
very popular range of disks for all you music fans.

3355 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #12
---------------------------
11 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3356 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #13
---------------------------
10 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3357 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #14
---------------------------
10 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3358 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #15
---------------------------
11 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3359 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #16
---------------------------
9 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3360 IMAGE STUDIO V1.0.1
------------------------
ImageStudio is written for the casual graphics user who wishes to
convert or manipulate various graphics formats on a modest Amiga
system. Features include :-

* Full 24-bit image buffers, with optimizations for colour-mapped
     (palette based) images.
* Up to 100 levels of undo / redo.
* User configurable virtual memory.
* User saveable preferences.
* Operations applicable to the whole image or a selected region.
* Up to 256 greyshade preview window (with optional dither).
* Zoom on preview window.
* Internal / external viewers (external for 3rd party 24-bit
  graphics cards).
* Loading / saving / manipulating of AGA image formats (e.g. 256
  colours, HAM8) on non-AGA machines.
* Max image size of 32000 x 32000 (limited to 250 x 250 in the
  unregistered version).
* Copy / paste to / from the system clipboard.
* Runs on all Workbench 2.04+ Amiga's - utilises AGA chipset if
  available.
* On disk AmigaGuide and ASCII text documentation.
* Multi-level help error requesters.
* Standard Workbench2 interface.
* Public screen.
* Requires no third party libraries or utilities.

Import:
* IFF-ILBM formats (Standard palette based, HAM6, HAM8, extra
  halfbright, ILBM24)
* BMP
* GIF (conforming to GIF87a)
* JPEG (conforming to JFIF standard)
* PCX
* Targa
* Any installed Amiga datatype (with Workbench 2.1+)

Export:
* IFF-ILBM formats (Standard palette based, HAM6, HAM8, extra
  halfbright, ILBM24)
* BMP
* GIF (conforming to GIF87a)
* JPEG (conforming to JFIF standard)
* PCX
* Targa

Colour Balance:
* All operations are available to the R,G,B components separately.
* Brightness ( upto 100%)
* Contrast (non to full)
* Gamma ( + and - )

Convolution:
* Built in convolutions: Blur, Sharpen, Emboss, Raise, Edge detect.
* User definable convolutions, load and save to disk.

Effects:
* Built in effects: FlipX, FlipY, RollX, RollY, Negative, Greyscale,
  Highlight, Shadow, Random, Pixelize, Remove isolated pixels.

Scale:
* Crop to selected region.
* Increase / decrease scale by percentage or absolute image size.
* Simple scale or colour averaged.

Colour reduction:
* Increase colour mapped images to 24-bit.
* Decrease number of colours in 24-bit or colour mapped images via
  Heckbert median cut algorithm. Reduce to any number of colours
  2-256 (not limited to powers of 2).
* Methods of palette colour choice: Colour distance, highest count
  and weighted average.
* Dithers available for colour reduction: None, Floyd-Steinberg,
  Burkes, Stucki, Sierra, Jarvis, Stevenson-Arce.

Palette:
* Save current palette.
* Force palette onto current image, dithering if necessary (all
     dithers available).
** SHAREWARE **

3361 SANTA AND RUDOLPH DO CHRISTMAS
-----------------------------------
You must guide Santa, or Rudolph, as they travel around the world. Armed
only with a large gun, you must avoid the hazards sent by the Sandman
whilst collecting the presents and delivering them to the windows on every
screen.  Once the target number of presents is delivered you will move onto
the next screen.  After three screens the location will change.

3362 PROBOARD V2.2
------------------
The ProBoard PCB designer is intended to provide the Amiga user with a
quality design package capable of the same standards of output as the
more expensive systems available for the likes of the PC. Features
include:- Freehand drawing resolution of 0.005 inches, Full (0.1 inch) or
half (0.05 inch) grid snap, Work in 3 scales (imperial, metric, pixels),
Select ANY desired track width (5 preprogrammed), ANY pad size, plus IC
pads, Component creation facilities Up to 4 track layers and 1 silk
screen layer (Multi version). Boards up to 7.5 x 7.5 inches.

3363 TEE TO GREEN V1.2
----------------------
An excellent golf scoring utility. Features include:- Will allow as many
courses on file as you can fit on the disk.  As many scores as you like for
each course. Stableford rounds and Normal rounds put in with ease in same
file. Every type of round will be taken into account. Even if you have 17
zeros. Handicaps worked out as to Royal and Ancient guidelines. Handicaps
can be set to be worked out automatically or only changed when you want.
Each round saved is saved with the handicap at the time of the round.
Every round entered can be viewed with a simple date selector.
Lovely eye pleasing graphics and extremely user friendly.

3364 KIDS DISK 6
----------------
Only one educational title on this disk. For ages 4-7. Set in a sweet shop
with large bright colourful graphics, the child must add, subtract, and
count different numbers of sweets in the shop. Excellent.
** SHAREWARE **

3365 AREXX GUIDE V2.0a
----------------------
A massive stack of information which will teach you how to learn Arexx. It
should also help them who have been using it for a while.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **

3366 ROCKETZ V1.0
-----------------
Rocketz is a 2 player multi directionally scrolling split-screen shootemup
racing game similar in concept to a combined version of thrust and
asteroids. The graphics are fully raytraced and the sound is of commercial
quality, normally unheard of in shareware titles. This is one EXCELLENT
game. Buy it today.
** SHAREWARE **

3367 ZYRAD 2
------------
A strange puzzle game. The object being, to clear the maze of the pods and
get to the exit without going back on yourself and without crashing into
the walls.

3368 CASSINI V3.2
-----------------
CASSINI is a menu driven program which calculates information about the
Sun, Moon, Planets and constellations.

3369 COMPLEX:PEE WEE DEMO
-------------------------
Another AGA demo from Complex. OK

3370 EVILS DOOM (PREVIEW)
-------------------------
A stunning preview of a new game. Dont know whether the full version is
shareware or commercial. Anyway, this is a dungeon master clone in Hi-Res.
The graphics are stunning and the music is one of the best, most
atmospheric tunes i have ever heard in ANY game in the last 9 years. Im not
sure how limited the game is but you MUST buy it. Thats an order from
Sergeant Socks.

3371(ABCD) IMAGINE 3.0 FONTS
----------------------------
4 disks jam packed full of Adobe Type 1 fonts for Imagine 3.0.

3372 MAGIC EXPANSION V1.3
-------------------------
MagicExpansion is a package with lots of icons, patterns, palettes,
mouse pointers for MagicWB, MUI image sets, color fonts and a C include
file for MUI-programming.

3373 ROBS HOT GAMES #9
----------------------
Only two games this time ladies and gentleman. Deluxe Galaga V2.3 and
Dynamite Warriors V2.0.

3374 ROBS HOT STASH #13
-----------------------
CompressDisk V1.6, DB V2.1, DiskInfoTools V2.0, DolbyPro V1.1, HeadCleaner
V37.2, MemMinister V1.1, Mfs V2.1, OpaqueMove V1.0, SnoopDos V3.0,
StarClock V1.01, ZedWB V2.1.

3375 MAGIC USER INTERFACE (MUI) V2.2
------------------------------------
MUI is an object oriented system to create and maintain graphical user
interfaces. From a programmers point of view, using MUI saves a lot of
time and makes life much easier. Thinking about complicated terms like
window resizing or font sensitivity is simply not neccesary.

3376 WORDPLAY
-------------
Wordplay is a selection of similar but individual word games all relying on
your ability with words. It is a superb package for all you old dodderers
out there who like doing puzzles and stuff.
** SHAREWARE **

3377 SPELLTRIS
--------------
Spelltris is a Tetris style game where the object of the game is to make
words out of the letters which fall from the top of the screen. Score
more points by making bigger and more complicated words.
** SHAREWARE **

3378 SEKA 32 PROFESSIONAL V2
----------------------------
Seka is a text adventure creator of the highest quality. You can have a
maximum of 9998 rooms in your game. each of these rooms can contain 10
objects from an inventory of 500. There are literally dozens of features to
this creator, far too many to list here.
** SHAREWARE **

3379 THE FAR SIDE SLIDESHOW
---------------------------
A collection of comedy slides for those with a weird and warped sense of
humour. Old gets can steer well clear.

3380(AB) GRAPEVINE 20
---------------------
Now down to 2 disks and coming out every 2 months.....

3381 ROBS HOT STASH #14
-----------------------
CheckGuide V1.0, DirecTree V1.0, DiscCat V2.11, FilthyLucre V1.32, Free
V1.00, AmigaGuideWriter V1.02, LockColours V1.0, Move V2.2a, PSIInfo,
Splitter V2.0, TextConvert V1.0, TheUltimateDegraderAndEnhancer.

3382 WORKBENCH 3 BACKDROPS
--------------------------
79, 16 colour backdrops for your AGA machine.

3383 ROBS HOT STASH #15
-----------------------
DiskProtector V2, AmigaTest V2.4, ARQ V1.83, CloudsAGA V1.15, FontPrefs
V2.12, GifKit V1.0, OctamedPlayer V5.12, SCDPlayer V1.2.7, Units,
VirusChecker V6.43, BBase V3.01, PicCon V2.50.

3384 SONIC DRUMKIT V2.0
-----------------------
A drum kit for your Amiga.

3385(AB) MAG E #5
-----------------
The best Sci-Fi/Fantasy mag available for your Amiga which is NOT solely
Star Trek based. (We dont want no complaints from the anorak brigade
that TFF is better). Amy on here we have 13 Red Dwarf articles, 7 Fantasy
articles, 13 RPG articles, 23 Sci-Fi articles and 25 Dr Who articles. There
is also some Star Trek pictures and various samples taken from TV shows.
Please support this mag, it is a real good read and deserves to do well so
get a copy now.

3386(AB) STAR TREK EPISODE GUIDES V1.21
---------------------------------------
A 2 disk set containing all the episode guides for Star Trek, Animated Star
Trek, Star Trek 2, the Star Trek Movies, Star Trek The Next Generation,
Star Trek Depp Space Nine and Star Trek Voyager. An excellent set done in
Hyperbook especially for all you anoraks out there.

3387 CHESS PROGRAMS
-------------------
This disk contains demo versions of 4 chess utility programs.
CHESSPUZZLES contains only one file of puzzles (Mate in 1 in Level 1)
This option will always be selected. The full version has about 1500
puzzles of varying difficulty.  CHESSLIBRARY only has one file of openings,
the Alekhines defence. The full version has about 1000 lines in all,
in addition to a section  on opening traps. CHESSRATER has only one game
you can test yourself on. The full version has 40 games. CHESSDATABASE has
one master game you can play over, and the option to save games to disk
is disabled.
** SHAREWARE **

3388 MR BROWNSTONE
------------------
Another boulderdash clone.

3389(AB) JINX
-------------
JINX (AGA) is an innovative 25 level, diamond collecting puzzle game,
incorporating superb graphics and original sound fx. With amusing
storyline and end sequence and save game option. It is a sort of follow up
to Masqurade (Disk X3188(AB))

3390 BIRTHDATE HISTORY V2.21
----------------------------
This program will allow you to enter your date of birth and will then
promptly print out a list of events which happened on that day. I.E. News
of the day, best selling record, how much items cost etc etc etc. A great
program. We took it back about 60 years and it still carried on chucking
out facts and figures, although we did find a few innacuracies.

3391 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #17
---------------------------
11 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3392 FLAMING ENGINES
--------------------
A SUPERB Super Sprint clone. The best arcade game EVER is yet again
converted to the Amiga. Its fast, the gfx and sound are good and its
soooooooo playable. Drive your car around the track, win the races, collect
the points and the credits, buy the add ons and go again. EXCELLENT SUPERB
BRILLIANT FANTASTIC.

3393 INDYCAR CHALLENGE
----------------------
Indycar Challenge is made up of two parts. A managerial section where the
player must manage their finances effectively, upgrading their cars
capabilities as and when they see fit, and the racing game. All aspects of
racing are taken into account. I.E. Engines, Aerodynamics, Tyres, Chassis,
Pit Crew etc etc. An excellent game.
** SHAREWARE **

3394 THE ICON ARCHIVE (MAGIC WB)
--------------------------------
A collection of MagicWorkBench icons, sorted according to the pictures
and the applications they show. There are 2.5 MB of icons on this disk
archived with LHA. An installer routine is provided. There are around 1000
icons in the archive.

3395(ABC) THE ICON ARCHIVE
--------------------------
A collection of WorkBench icons, sorted according to the pictures and
the applications they show. An installer routine is provided. There are
around 2500 icons in this 3 disk set. Disk A contains WB2, Dock And
Preferences Icons. Disk B contains Large Hi-Res and System Icons and Disk C
contains IFF Brushes and Grid Dock Icons. An excellent collection for
anyone wishing to jazz up their workbench.

3396 MARILYN MONROE CARDSET
---------------------------
Another cardset for Klondike AGA featuring this stunning woman.

3397(ABCD) KLONDYKE 3
---------------------
The latest version of this now classic AGA card game. This version has a
few minor bug fixes but also contains ShowReko - a utility to show all the
cards in a set and a Reko cardset creator.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **

3398 JUDGEMENT DAY
------------------
Judgement Day is a similar game to Demolition Mission. The exception that
this game works on all Amigas. The object is simple. Fly your plane across
the screen whilst destroying the different sized skyscrapers below. After
every pass, the plane gets lower and lower. If you havent bobmbed all the
buildings by then, youve had it.

3399 CARTOON CLIPART
--------------------
A disk of high quality Hi-Res clipart. Features a stack of popular
characters including Bugs Bunny, Zebedee, Dougal, Dylan, Mickey Mouse, Road
Runner etc etc.

3400 DR WHO CARDSET
-------------------
Yet another cardset for Klondike. This time featuring the infamous time
travelling gynaecologist. Also on here are 2 Dr Who theme tune remixes for
you to use with Klondike as well.
** REQUIRES Klondike 2 OR 3 **

3401 RETURN OF THE JEDI CARDSET
-------------------------------
The 10 billionth cardset for Klondike has arrived. Yet again, very high
quality.
** REQUIRES Klondike 2 OR 3 **

3402 EMPIRE STRIKES BACK CARDSET
--------------------------------
And another one.
** REQUIRES Klondike 2 OR 3 **

3403 RADIATION
--------------
The BEST 3D Construction Kit game EVER.

3404 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #18
---------------------------
14 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3405 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #19
---------------------------
12 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3406 COMPUGRAPHIC FONTS #20
---------------------------
11 more CG fonts to use with your favourite GFX/DTP package.

3407 SWIMSUIT CARDSET
---------------------
Yep you guessed it.

3408 FACES 2 CARDSET
--------------------
The second set of stunning faces for use with Klondike.

3409 THIRD DIMENSION #7
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3410 MYTHOS GREEK
-----------------
Mythos Greek is a reference book for anyone studying or interested in
classical Greek mythology. It is certainly not a complete work covering
everything ever mentioned in Greek mythology but it does give a damn good
go at it.

3411 STAR TREK TNG CARDSET
--------------------------
Aaaarrrrrrggggghhhhhh. Another of the bloody things. This is getting worse
then the saucy AGA pictures disks we were bombarded with a while ago. For
use with Klondike AGA.

3412 X-MEN CARDSET
------------------
At last, a decent subject to do a Klondike AGA cardset on.

3413 CYBER PUNK NOW! #3
-----------------------
A magazine dedicated to everything Cyberpunk. Internet, Virtual Reality,
Hacking, CyberArt, CyberSex, Futurism, Sci-Fi and computers in general +
anims and pictures. Reviewed favourably in CU AMIGA (Nov 94).

3414(AB) PAGESTREAM 3 UPDATE
----------------------------
On these two disks are ALL you need to update your Pagestream v3.0 program
to "3.0C". The first disk contains the complete upgrade kit from 3.0 to
3.0B and then the second disk from v3.0B to v3.0C.

3415 VIDEOTRACKER V2.0
----------------------
With VideoTracker you can make a videoclip around a module. You can use
pictures, brushes, animations, animation-brushes, palettes, colorcycle,
routines, texts, objects, vectorobjects, amigafonts, karafonts,
landscapes, colorsets. When the video is finished, you can save the
module and video data as a "Vidule". A vidule is a crunchable
executable file which plays the module and the video. You can make a
small intro or a big house-demo. You also can use VideoTracker with a
GenLock and, for example, make professional movie-titles with
colorfonts.
** AGA AND NON AGA VERSIONS ON HERE ** ** SHAREWARE **

3416 SCION V3.13
----------------
This is a specialised database for keeping track of genealogical information.
It features a full, easy to use, Intuition interface with key short-cuts for
most gadgets. The programme is totally non-sexist and secular in nature, and
correctly handles multiple marriages, "unconventional" marriages,
adopted children, and  unmarried parents. Other features include dynamic
on-screen ancestor and descendant charts, extensive on-line
context-sensitive help (using "AmigaGuide",  Commodore  Business Machines),
flexible "regular expression" searching, and multiple ARexx ports with
extensive command set.

3417 IMAGINE V3.0 FONTS & ATTRIBUTES
------------------------------------
2 full fonts (letter by letter) + stacks and stack of attributes.

3418 IMAGINE V3.0 ATTRIBUTES & FONTS
------------------------------------
Only one font on here, but literally dozens of attributes.

3419 MULTI USER V1.8
--------------------
MultiUser allows you to create a *IX-like environment where several users
live  together  in  harmony,  unable to delete each others files, unable to
read  those  private  love-letters  of  other  users  ...  And this even if
several  users  are  working on the machine at the same time (on a terminal
hooked up to the serial port) ...  You  are  the  sole user of your
computer?  Well, make sure it stays that way  by installing MultiUser!
People without a valid login ID and password won't be able to access
files you have made private with MultiUser.  If you make all files private
(not readable for others), the only useful thing they could do, is boot
from a floppy ...
** CLI KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED **

3420 TERM V4.1a NORMAL VERSION + DOCS
-------------------------------------
Term is a telecommuncations program designed for use with any
Commodore-Amiga computer running Kickstart 2.04 or higher. Its features
include

* Fast built-in VT-220 terminal emulation
* Support for custom terminal emulation modules following the `XEM
  2.0' standard
* Operates in any display environment, supports all screen display
  modes
* Support for file transfer modules following the `XPR' standard
* File- and printer-capturing functions
* Review-buffer support
* Powerful phonebook and dialing functions
* `Amiga User Interface Style Guide' conformant user interface
* Online-help (requires AmigaGuide package)
* Built-in `ARexx' interface
* File upload list, which permits selecting the files to be
  transferred before the upload is started.
* Login script learn mode.
* Built-in keyword/response parser which makes it possible to have
  `term' respond to BBS prompts and such with the user name,
   password, etc. without having to program the ARexx interface.
* Interface for external programs to rendezvous with `term', taking
  over serial I/O processing (such as `HydraCom').
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED ** ** ALL FILES ARE ARCHIVED ** ** ** NO INSTALLER
ROUTINE PROVIDED **

3421 TERM V4.1a 030+ VERSION + DOCS
-----------------------------------
See +3420 for full details. This is the 030+ version.

3422 TERM V4.1a EXTRAS & LIBS
-----------------------------
This disk includes extras for Term V4.1a:- HydraCom - Amiga port of the
HydraCom bidirectional file transfer program, enhanced for use with
`term'. Sample ARexx scripts for use with `term', Sound files for use with
`term' and additional utilities to with `term'

3423 MANGLED FENDERS & MEGABALL BOARDS
--------------------------------------
Mangled Fenders is a stock car type bash em and smash em game. There are 6
different vehicles to choose from and 6 different backgoround screens.
There are also 7 power ups and 6 Multilevel upgrades. A superb game. Also
on this disk are 50 boards for the REGISTERED version of Megaball V2.0 and
50 boards for the REGISTERED version of Megaball V3.0.

3424(ABC) BODYSHOP 8
--------------------
Loads more saucy pictures for all you pervys out there. It will work on all
Amigas.

3425 THIRD DIMENSION #1
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3426 THIRD DIMENSION #2
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3427 THIRD DIMENSION #3
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3428 THIRD DIMENSION #4
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3429 THIRD DIMENSION #5
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3430 THIRD DIMENSION #6
-----------------------
The only disk magazine dedicated to 3D Construction Kit users. Tutorials,
Reviews, Letters etc etc. Excellent for anyone seriously into using this
utility.

3431(ABC) CLAUDIA SCHIFFER AGA
------------------------------
Three disks full of AGA pics of this stunning bird.

3432 ROBS HOT STASH #16
-----------------------
EdWord V5 (DEMO), Director V1.5, DClock V1.2, VirusChecker V6.44, TimeKeep,
IFFEditor V1.01, ScaleCalc v1.0 and PicMerge V2.1.

3433 ROBS HOT STASH #17
-----------------------
Azap V2.40, CrunchDiskV1.2, FontPrefs V2.14, GDU V1.1, GMC V1.06, LozStats
V2.00, SBLEyes, ShowFont, SuperPrint V3.5b, TinyPlayer, VirusZII V1.11,
Aavd V1.1, Aush V3.17, CacheFont V1.1, Inf V1.34, ModePro V2.2, QInfo V1.7
and Sort V1.34.

3434 GBLANKER V3.5 (030 VERSION)
--------------------------------
An excellent new modular screenblanker with 20 different blankers. This is
the version for 030+. The program requires a hard drive and includes
Install and Remove scripts.

3435 GBLANKER V3.5
------------------
An excellent new modular screenblanker with 20 different blankers. This is
the version for 000, 010 and 020 processors. The program requires a hard
drive and includes Install and Remove scripts.

3436 EPU DISK STAKKER V1.70
---------------------------
A PD version of DiskExpander. Does it work? You bet your great aunt fannys
rocking chair it does!!! Includes full Install and Remove scripts so even
the biggest Amiga owning idiot can use it. Basically the program uses
compression libraries to allow you to double the size of your harddrive.
Besides doubling the free space, the program also allows you to compress
the files which are already on your hard drive. Its a complete pisser to
use. This is the latest version available.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **

3437(AB) EAGLEPLAYER V1.53
--------------------------
The Eagleplayer is a program-package to comfortably play music of different
sound-formats.It actually includes the play-routines for Sound/Noise/
Protracker,Startrekker (AM) & AudioSculpture(AM) as well as the internal
customplay-port as already known from DeliTracker1.3 and is able to load
furthermore needed players after. The advantage of this method is as the
following: You do only have to load the actualy needed players,what saves
loading-time and memory.Besides that,the length of the main program will
not increase to infite length.All internal SoundTrackerRePlayers support
Song-Loading. The Songs and Samples may be packed.The Instrument-Path may
be adjusted via Config  The Samples may be packed.They are all loaded as
RAW data.

Following some features of the Eagleplayer:-

- built up modular
- the number of loadable players is only limited by the amount of free
  memory (chap. 3.4)
- supports AppWindow in all its intern windows (Kick2.0+)
- 100% Assembler coded
- alphabetical order of players in the Playerwindow
- a AddPlayerDir function
- a DeleteAll function
- players can be enabled/disabled
- possibility of loading up to 32 external   (e.g. Analyzerprograms)
- own graphical interfaces can be programed and used as Userprograms
- the choice of modules to be played can be done directly via
  Pulldown-Menues (chap. 4.1.2)
- comprehensive possibility of configuration (FadeIn, LoadNext ...)
- speed-regulation via Proportional Gadgets (chap 4.1.1)
- all voices can be separately enabled/disabled
- status report via scroller
- 8 intern Depackers+ XPK + XFDMaster
- extensive ModuleInfos, if the Replayer has been adapted apropriately
- ONE version for all Kickstarts (from Kick1.2 upward)
- gadgets automatically accomodate to the color-palette when opening
  a window (3D-loock)
- modern styling (we think)
- has an Iconify-Mode (AppItem, AppIcon, LittleWin)
- internal SoandTrackerPlayers are able to load songs
- a PlayFaster-Gadget
- more Arexx-commands (above all,status-commands)
- a Randomsong/AutoSubSong-function
- different filerequesters (ASL,Req,ReqTools,None)
- Fadein/fadeout of the music
- complete configuration including open windows, their position,
  actual directory, actual Module, Packmode etc. as an editable ASCII-File
- able to play a random chosen module automatically after starting the
  program.
- duration calculator for certain soundsystems
- Patternscrolling feature for several Soundsystem
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED**

3438 FAST CARS CARDSET
----------------------
Another Klondike Cardset. This time of Porsches and Lamborghinis etc etc.
** REQUIRES Klondike 2 OR 3 **

3439 IMAGINE:BABYLON 5 OBJECTS
------------------------------
4, Babylon 5 objects, for Imagine 2 + 3. None of the models have any
colours or textures attached.

3440 VIRTUAL MEMORY UTILS
-------------------------
VMM V2.1 implements a virtual memory manager for Amigas with a 68040 or
68030 processor. A nice GUI to enter all parameters and to disable
certain tasks and load files from using virtual memory is also provided.
V2.1 fixes various bugs in V2.0a.  It also includes a write buffer for
pages  going  out  to disk, making VMM a lot faster.  Paging to a file
has also been speeded up significantly.

VMEM, another virtual memory program is also on this disk. VMem is a
package of several programs and files which allow your AMIGA Access to
almost infinite amounts of memory,by letting programs which have been
designed to use VMem to use a space on a disk as memory.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **

3441 VIRUS WORKSHOP V4.3
------------------------
VirusWorkshop is the latest and possibly best Virus Killer on the Amiga. It
will get rid of a large number of trojans, and is excellent for general
file/sector checking on hard drive or on floppy. It will also check memory.

3442 ROBS HOT STASH #18
-----------------------
DeliTrackerII V2.07, DoIcon V1.1 and IntuiDex V1.1.
** HARD DRIVE REQUIRED **

3443 MENUS AND MORE V3.12
-------------------------
With Menus & More (M&M) you are able to create graphic orientated
screen menus. Once you have installed your own menu, you can easily
call many programs from one central screen. It's just like designing
your own graphical user interface without doing any programming.
All you have to know is how to start your programs from CLI. Because of
the great amount of options, you are able to produce even more than just
menus - as the name of program indicates!
** SHAREWARE **

3444 PROTITLER V1.1
-------------------
ProTitler purports to be one of the finest video titling systems for the
Amiga (all bar Scala!).  It has a wide range of effects mainly designed
with the genlock-user in mind, however if you don't have a genlock, the
program still remains useful for video titling work. The are 13 features
available which should be of use to all users.
** SHAREWARE **

3445(ABC) DEAD OF NIGHT
-----------------------
DOD is a SUPERB 3 disk multi-language graphic adventure. The graphics are
EXCELLENT. The game is based around the old-style Pick Up, Drop, Examine,
Open and Close type genre. The english is a bit dodgy in places but this is
one helluva game for all fans out there.
** SHAREWARE **

3446(AB) MISSILES OVER XERION
-----------------------------
One of THE BEST PD GAMES OF ALL TIME. Im not joking either. This is
fantastic. Basically, it is Missile Command, BUT, the graphics are
stunning, the sound is stunning, the presentation is stunning, there are
billions of different power-ups, (well a few anyway) AND it works on all
machines too with enhanced bits for machines with 1MB chip RAM. Astounding,
amazing. If you are a nostalgia freak, or just like shoot-em ups, THEN YOU
MUST BUY THIS GAME TODAY. It could easily sell as a full price game and
everybody would go potty over it. Also if you load it through Workbench you
get an old basic ploppy version of MC too.

3447 IMAGINE OBJECTS
--------------------
This disk FINALLY contains the Williams F1 racing car object. It includes
all the attributes for the surfaces and sponsorship. There are also three
4-colour brushes which are `wrapped' onto the car to reproduce the Williams
colour scheme. Also on here is a 747 Jumbo Jet object in both Imagine 2.0 &
3.0 formats. It also includes several brushes which can be added to the
object.

3449 BIG DUMMYS GUIDE TO THE INTERNET
-------------------------------------
The BDGTTI is a massive .guide file containing stacks and stacks of
information about the Internet. What it is, What it does, How to get on,
What you can get once you are on. Lists of FTP sites and much much much
much more. If you are thinking about going on Internet, then get this
first.

3450(AB) AMITCP V3.0b
---------------------
These two disks contain the full archive to allow you to get up and running
on the Internet once you have got your account setup with whichever service
provider you choose. This is by far the BEST Internet software available.
Unfortunately it is extremely difficult to configure although an install
script is provided just to get you going. You will need an EXTREMELY GOOD
knowledge of using the CLI and also a hard drive is required. The archive
contains FULL documents for the program. 17 Bit will give no help on this
program whatsoever, so if you have a problem with it or you cant use CLI or
you dont have a hard drive, TOUGH. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. The software
allows you to telnet, gopher, FTP, send and recive mail, full Usenet
access, and whatever else you may need.
** CLI KNOWLEDGE & HARD DRIVE REQUIRED, DONT BUY IT OTHERWISE **

3451 MOSAIC FOR AMITCP V1.2
---------------------------
If you havent heard of it then you dont know what it is. This software used
in conjunction with AmiTCP V3.0b will allow you access to the World Wide
Web sites around the globe. This software also requires disk 3375 (MUI),
to run.

3452 ROBS HOT STASH #19
-----------------------
NewMode V3.3, CommandList V1.1, AmiCDROM V1.15, ScriptFile V2.5.4 and
AmigaNCP V0.9b (AmigaNCP allows you to connect your Amiga to a Psion series
3 or 3a)

3453 FREEFORM3D V1.88
---------------------
FreeForm is a Bspline and NURB editor for Real3D2, Aladdin, LightWave,
Caligari and Imagine. FreeForm has a realtime Perspective and Parallel
view interface, with points picking and bones modification in all views.
In the interactive modes, you can choose how your object is displayed on
the fly.
** SHAREWARE **

3454 ROBS HOT STASH #20
-----------------------
LKick V2.23, AGAPatch, AnsiDesigner V2.1, BarClock V1.2, CPUControl,
DefIcon V1.52, ExoticRipper V2.25, IconMonger, MemDoubler V1.1, PowerShell
V3.00b, PackDev V1.1, RecordSound, PlaySound, VideoCreatorExtras.

3455 DELUXE GALAGA V2.4
-----------------------
The latest version of this ever popular shooting game. New features include
75 levels, now use a joypad, money, money bonuses and progress indicator
added to the meteor storm plus a few other bits as well.

3456 256 COLOUR ICONS
---------------------
Loads of 256 colour icons for you to use on WB3, Some saucy girly icons on
here too!!!!

3457 LIGHTWAVE METAFORM TUTORIAL
--------------------------------
This is a small tutorial on how to create organic-type objects with
the metaform function in Lightwave 3.5's modeler. There are 9 IFF demo pics
to help you on your way and also 3 Lightwave objects on here as well.

3458(ABCDE) A-Z OF LIGHTWAVE OBJECTS
------------------------------------
5 disks jam packed full of objects for use in LW V3.0+. There are 129
objects altogether. This is an excellent pack for all you Lightwave users
out there.

3459 XENEX
----------
Xenex is an up-to date variation on the old classic, Asteroids, different
and more souped up weapons, large sprites and much much more, plus the
fact that its extremely bloody fast. Written by Mark Sheeky, the guy who
did Overlander and Global Thermonuclear Warfare.
** SHAREWARE **

3460(AB) A PHOTOGRAPHIC LECTURE
-------------------------------
This is an excellent photographic tutorial entitled `A Different Approach'.
Written by a photographer with over 30 years experience, this program will
teach you how to get away from taking pictures of `the norm' i.e. sunsets
and swans, and experiment with some more radical ideas. The program is
written in AMOS and contains lots of IFF pictures and documentation.

3461(ABC) THE WEATHER GUIDE
---------------------------
How much do you understand of the physical processes which affect and
shape the weather? Would you know when a front is passing overhead, how
does a lighting bolt travel, upwards or downwards? Why do we never ever
have hurricanes in Britain? The 3 disk educational title takes the subject
of meteorology and explain it in a easy to understand manner. Written in
Hyperbook, it is an excellent learning tool for all.

3462 OBSTICKLE
--------------
A superb christmas platform game. The graphics and sound are excellent.
The sprites are well drawn and the gameplay is superb. Get this one today.
** SHAREWARE **

3463(AB) LUCIFER:UNHOLY INNOCENCE
---------------------------------
From the guy who brought you The Book of Shades and the Grimoir. Finally he
gets a music set into the library after many moons of trying. This is sort
of gothic/grunge music. No doubt there are many of you out there probably
like it. How sad you are.

3464 UTILITIES
--------------
On here we have MicroProse F1GP-Editor V2.04 and ButtonMenu V1.21.

3465 THE ULTIMATE QUIZ #2
-------------------------
An excellent quiz game for all you boffins out there. This version is
limited 50 questions but if you register for the paltry some of 10 quid
then you get the full version with data disks etc etc.
** SHAREWARE **

3466 ROBS HOT STASH #21
-----------------------
About V1.2, MakeVersion V1.0, BootContoller V1.0, Text2Guide V3.10,
BootLock V4.6, Install V39.2, BRun V1.0, CR2LF V1.0, FrontierPatch V1.1,
NoiseSaver V2.1, MemCheck, Rand, F1GPLapSet V1.00, Quotation V1.02,
F1GPPatch V2.00, Died V2.8, Browse V1.0, HDOff, MakeVersion V1.0, MemCheck,
OneFont, PS V1.35, SpeedSys V1.0, Starsky V1.4, Stow V0.95b, Worm V1.1a,
MEDAlloc, MEDPlay, MEDRip, MEDWipe, MODAlloc, MODPlay, MODRip, MODWipe.

3467 RANMA CARDSET
------------------
Yet another cardset for Klondike AGA. This one one features Ranma, the
Japanese anime cartoon characters.

3468 SAILORMOON CARDSET
-----------------------
And another one. More Japanese anime stuff.

3469 ROBS HOT STASH #22
-----------------------
DB V2.4, ExoticRipper V2.26, Reflex V1.0, F1GPPatch V2.20, HPDeskJet 560C
Controller V1.0.

3470 FANTASY D&D CARDSET
------------------------
A dungeons and dragons cardset for Klondike.

3471 MAGICWB BRUSHES + ICONS
----------------------------
Stacks and stacks of icons, brushes, docks and various other knobs and
twiddly bits for Magic Workbench.

3472 MIDNIGHT V2.08
-------------------
Midnight is a modular screen blanking system designed with AmigaDOS 2.x/3.x
in mind.  A few of its features are listed below:

 Screen Mode selection in all modules with AGA support
 Standard 2.x Preferences interface
 Font sensitive window
 Enforcer/Mungwall Proof Code
 Public screen support
 GadTools interface
 IFF Preference file
 Separate Dameon and GUI
 Amiga Guide support (library is optional)
 NT/PT music support in every module!

There are currently 16 blankers available, all distributed with this
release.

3473 DFA V2.2
-------------
DFA is the ultimate address tool for you and the Amiga computer. DFA
supports email addresses, dialing of phone numbers, grouping of
addresses, different types of printing addresses, online help,
application icon/window and much more! DFA has an Arexx port, font
sensitive windows and can be fully directed by keyboard. Native languages
are supported as soon as Workbench 2.1 (and above) is installed.

347