Amos PD

          ==================== ABK MUSIC ====================

APD008
Music & Samples 1
 
Mix  of  samples  and  music, with the emphasis more on samples.  Bonus,
Collect1,  Drip,  EchoSwish,  Explosion1,  Explosion2, Footstep, Funky1,
Gameover1,   Gameover2,   Gameover3,   Gameover4,  Gameover5,  Gunshot1,
Hiscore1,  Hiscore2,  Hiscore3, Laser1, Laser2, Laser3, Maintune, Misc1,
PLAYER.amos    Pop1,   Pop2,   Really_Funky,   Startgame2,   Stereobang,
Swordclang,   Swordswipe,   Timewarp1,   Timewarp2,  Welldone2.   aaaah,
AMOSspeech,  bass5,  bass9,  bassdrum,  basstring1,  Blast, burp, click,
collect1,    Doom,   Doom2,   Doom3,   drip,   explosion1,   explosion2,
FootstepECHO,  gunshot1, Jetes, lazer1, lazer2, Magic, misc1, NightMare,
organ2,  Outlaw,  Panflute,  spring1,  Strange,  stratguitar,  strings1,
stringsmaj, stringsmin, swordCLANG, SwordSWIPE, timewarp, voice.

APD034
Luke Miller Music 1
Luke Miller
 
This  disc  contains  11  songs  which  you can use in your own programs
providing  that you acknowledge Luke.  Also on the disk is Tiler.Amos, a
simple but playable game.

APD061
Luke Miller Music 2
Luke Miller
 
10  more  untitled  songs  from  Luke,  complete with the AMOS Player by
Martyn Brown.

APD084
Luke Miller Music 3
Luke Miller
 
Another  11  songs  from Luke in ABK form along with Tiler3.AMOS and the
music player.

APD101
Auto Player
Technical Fred Software
 
Load  in  your  AMOS  music  and use this very well documented player to
listen to it.

APD111
bladerunners music 1
andrew halsall & dave rimmer
 
Uses  a  hardware  scroll  for the message on the screen and is a simple
music demo but very well presented.

APD120
music player
steve bennett
 
Dennis the Menace features on the music player.  Some good music is also
on this disc.

APD122
Amos Jukebox 1
Jon Of Electrolyte
 
Music  player with 9 good songs:  FRIENDSHIP, INTROBEAT, MAD MAZE, PIANO
PLINKER,  SMOKE, STARWORX, STRANGE LOADER, TELEPHONE and THE EXPERIMENT.
Very  simple  controls  consist of function keys 1-9 to choose the music
and right mouse button to control LED.

APD129
music disc 1
syntex
 
Another very good demo from Syntex.

APD144
zenn music box

 
Music  player.  Very good VU meter with 16 channels.  Music on this disc
is  ART  II,  NEVERENDING  STORY, FROZEN DAY, WHAT I AM, NO INSPIRATION,
CONANS FIRST, DALEY and WOWEE ZOWEE.  Very well presented disc.

APD179
Tuned In
Luke Miller
 
Another  collection  of  music composed by Luke that you can use in your
own programs providing that you acknowledge Luke.
The  tunes  are:-  cradler,  cute,  hit_the_top,  Hunted,  m1,  m2,  m4,
MDingame, music1, music2dat, warping_zone,

APD242
Music Player
Mark Dyson
 
Needs AMOS to run.  Contains Baal, Cabal, LdRunner, Thesign and Thunder.
Use  the arrow keys to scroll through the songs and press return to play
them.

APD267
Sounds Like...
Luke Miller
 
Yet  more top notch music from Luke Miller in .ABK form.  Pieces on this
disc  are  Hurry  Up!,  Trundle, Panik, Cry_Baby, Its_Coming!, Arachnid,
Before,  Heralding,  Herra  and  Forgotten  Glory.  All the music can be
listened to from a simple music player.

APD282
dr. strange music
dr. strange
 
Please  order  Disc  2 (APD283) when ordering this disc.  Well presented
music  player  with  10  very different pieces of music.  The screen has
benn made to look like a Compact Disc player and has lots of buttons for
doing  various  things.   The VU meter and Volume Indicator is also very
nice.  Good disc.
Tunes   are:-   Bacteria   1-7,   equalise,   heavyballad,   revolution,
zimmersound, Drums

APD288
demented designs
demented designs
 
This  is  a  very  well  presented  music  disc.   It  features the most
origional  VU meter I have seen so far in the AMOS PD library.  The bars
move  around  on  the screen whilst changing length in time to the music
and also change colour.  There are 7 pieces of music chosen by using the
keyboard:   Monolithik,  Softoonz,  Multimsuic,  Bright  Eyes, Softcred,
Calgames  and  R-Tek.   There  is also a nice loading sequence.  Lots of
useful routines in this music program.

APD289
eko's music disc
eko
 
Please  order  Disc  2  (APD290)  when  ordering  this disc.  I found it
difficult  at  first  to  believe that this program had been written and
COMPILED  in AMOS but it has!  There are 22 pieces of 8 Channel music on
tese  2  discs from various groups e.g.  Kefrens, Scoopex etc.  When you
choose  a  piece  you  also get the groups logo on the screen which is a
nice touch.  Shame the program is compiled though!  Very good.
The music titles are:-
axel,  dawn,  dots, dynamic, flower, future, GWLV7, klaas, metal, steel,
sun,  tonight,  ba1, Beast, Breeze, cluster, crazy, dark, Madness, Moon,
quest, who.

APD310
Ketchup
Bitmapped Productions

Please order APD311 (Disc 2) when ordering this disc.  There are 6 music
tracks spread over these two discs all selectable from a nice menu.  The
tracks  are  Tied  Up,  Infraction, Galaxy II, KGB House, Watch This and
Popcorn.   The  program is compiled so you can't look at the source code
which is a shame!

APD319
Music Mania
Andrew Elia
 
Music  Mania  is  a  well presented music player that...  well...  plays
music  and  thats about it!  There are other options on the main program
menu  but  there is also a note saying that they are not on the disc for
some reason.

APD320
Music Equaliser


Another music disc but this one requires AMOS to run and also needs 1mb.
There  are  nine  different tunes on these discs all of which are fairly
good.  The music player/demo isn't bad but isn't much to look at.
Music  is:-  carvup,  cream, cryingspy, silhouete, uponme, blue, breath,
decade, jungle, mod4, short, urock,

APD330
Amos Sounds 1
Michael Foord
 
A  disc  of  .ABK  music  files,  and  a  player, for you to use in your
programs.
The tunes are:-
  captive, chant, comon, cure, pretty-cool, rebels, simpsons, starworx, strange
loader.

APD331
Amos Sounds 2
Michael Foord
 
Another  disc of .ABK music files and Samples, from Michael Foord you to
use in your programs.
 Samples:- Boing, Bouncer, camera, Click, ClockWork, DogBark,
Electric-Door, fbreak, Five, footsteps1, Four, fsigh, GameOver,
GetReady, Gong, Helicopter-Blades, hlaserblast, hlaugh, horsegalloping, Level
mAAAh! mad cow, morse, One, Pistol, SkidMarks, Swosh, Three, Two              

Tunes:-  ba1, build up, complications, crionics, hi-t soul, intro music,
psychic child, Simple player.AMOS, space song.

APD379
Music Disk 4
Luke Miller
 
A  disk  full of Luke's music.  Tunes on this disk are :- Ben's Revenge,
Boogaloo,  Juliet  &  Romeo,  Lurker  in the Dark, Predation, RollNrock,
Roving matrix, Time to sigh, Xmania.

APD380
Tuned Into....
Luke Miller
 
Luke Miller presents a further collection of his work on this disk.  The
tunes  are:-  Chaos  Rain,  Chrome  District,  Distilled,  Leap, Maximum
Minimality, Short 'n'Sweet, and Voices in the Wind.

APD389
Luke Miller's Music 5
Luke Miller
 
Another  disk of 6 tunes for you.  Tunes are:- CHAINS OF THE SEA, CITRUS
SQUISH,  JUST A RHYTHM, ONE EYED UNDERTAKER, ON THE SCENT, VICTIM OF THE
BUG Disk complete with player program.

APD390
Luke Miller's Music 6
Luke Miller
 
Eight songs for you this time.  ENEMY WITHIN, HIGH IN THE SKY, JO, MUSIC
PROBABLY,  ODE  TO  AWE,  POTLITICALO TURMOIL, THE CHOSEN ONE, THE PITS.
Disk complete with player program.

APD391
Early Works
Maes Hugo
 
This   music   playing   disk   contains   several   tunes:-  C-PLAYERS,
TYPESWINGING, UP THE COUNTRY, CUCKOO, ITS A HARD LIFE & DESERT VICTORY.

APD449
Music Disk 7
Luke Miller
 
Another  collection  of tunes from Luke Miller.  Plenty of .abk musicfor
you to use in your programs:-
 bottled_anxiety, Cool_breeze, death_of_a_bard, fill_in, make_way, Newway_out,
purple_orange, shallow_mallow, WUFF.                         

APD533
Maverick Music Demo
Maverick (aussie)
 
 A music demo disk with sample files and a directory of instruments.
 Music -  Lemmings_Song.abk                
Sound Sams - aarrgghh! AirWrench, Alarm, ArrowHit, ArrowStart, atmosphere1,
atmosphere2, axe_hero, Beep, bell, bigeko, bike, bottieburp, bottlesmash, burp, buzzer,
creak, doorbell, enemymotor, enemysaucer, exterminate! fanfare, fire! five(hundred), 
gameover, hammer, higheko, hitglass(2), hitwoodobject, Humm, hummer, HumPulse2,
klank, klaps(lo5), klaxon, loweko, machinegun, metaleko, Metallic, missile,
MONTY.PYTHON, OK,Suckers!! one(hundred), orch_hifi, orch_lofi, peow! Phaser1,
Pulsar, Pulse, ricochet, riff1, riff2, roar, roareko2, saucer, sinewavepulse, sinewavepulse2,
singleshot, sologunhi2, spacerifle, SweepDown, SweepUp, SweepUpshort, Sword, swordswish,
tank, Throb, trringg!, two(hundred), WowPulse, XploLong, Xplomedium, XploShort,
XploShort2. 
Instruments:-  aLAHIHAT3, ALAMIDHIHAT, bass, bassdrum, beatbassd, brass,
D-50-Blue,       D-50-DarkAss,      D-50-EchoBass,      D-50-JarreTense,
D-50-Lazershort,    d20synth1,    d20synth1.2,    fredclap,    M1-HHATO,
sanbornbass1, snaredrum, uhr, woodsnare.  

APD534
Aussie Music #1

 
There are 12 tunes on this disk, player included.
FAST-JACK-JUGI,GIANNASISTERSW,  heavy_on_the_rocks,  nightfall, nothing,
okremix, phr, pianosong, popcorn_mix, raggy, riff, rocking.

APD535
Aussie Music #2

 
Music player and 7 tunes.
 BOND3,   FRESH-HOUSE,   FUNNY-DAYS,  HIT,  ONCE-MORE-JUGI,  REVOLUTION,
WHASTELAND.

APD536
Aussie Music #3

 
You can listen to 12 tunes via the player on this disk.
 ARCADEANOIA,  CLOUDS,  FLICKEDOUT90,  GATEMEETING,  HIP-HOP, INTROGASM,
LORDS-OF-LIGHT, MANOCARMIX, MED24, SUNBEAT, TUTENKAHMEN, ZAPPY.

APD537
Aussie Music #4

 
Player and 13 tunes.
 big_in_japan,   cebit,   delta,  fred,  hero,  hotstuff,  hymn_to_yezz,
innervission,  jarre,  jungle, laserremix, lessonsinlove, magnum.  

APD538
Aussie Music #5

 
Player and 9 tunes.
 GHOSTY, m5, t1, t2, t3, t4, t5, t6, t7.

APD539
Aussie Music #6

 
Player and 11 tunes
 m3,  nsquiz,  song1,  sos, speedsong, sunsetglow, symphony, tankscores,
thesecondface, thesong, x_express.

APD540
Aussie Music #7

 
Player and 8 pieces of music
  alf, burnedout, EL_Music, gunship, lars, m1, Photo, pobox.

APD627
Mal's Sampled Speech
Malcolm Lavery
 
There are 73 examples of speech on this disk, they are of a reasonable
size and should be useful in your programs!The filenames tell you what
the speech is.
4321          Airstrike  Air_to_Ground   Alert          Amo
Astalavesta   Chaingun   Close           Come_Here      Complete
ContestantReady          Damage_Critical Destruction_In Excelent
Faitality     Fifty      Fight           FinishHim      Finish_Him
First_Aid     FlawlessVictory            Forty          Get_Out
Get_Over_Here Going_Down Going_Down      HeGotIt        Helecopter_sound
Intercepter   Intruder   Jonny           JustInTime     Kano          
Keys          Lets_Go2   Lets_Go         Look_Out       LueKang
Marveless     Mayday     Mission_Acom    MoveOut        Naparm       
NO!           OhDamn     OhIAgree        OhYes          One
Over_Kill     Raygan     Requires        Return         Re_Load      
Rockets       Scorpion   Seconds         Sonya          SubZero
Take_Him_Out  Take_Off   Ten             Terminated     ThatsIt      
ThatWillHelp  Thirty     TookAHit        Touch_Down     Twenty
Two_Many_Hits Two        Uhrrr!          WellDone       Wins 

APD632
TA SAMS
From Totally Amos
 
aaaahhh,  alienexpl,  another_laser, anti_aircraft, argh, Arrow, arrow1,
arrr,   atmosphere1,   automatic_fire,   bark,   Beep,   biplane_engine,
bird_chirp,   Boing,  Boing2,  Bouncer,  Bubble,  captain  caveman!,caw,
comeon,    crickets_chirping,    damp,    Dedede,    DOOR2,    doorbell,
Dull_Sword_Clang,EEEE,  eeek,  EEIONG,  Elephant, enter_name, Explosion,
explosion1,  fire!, FootSteps, galactica_laser, GameOver, Glass, gogogo,
gunshot,  HandGun, HEART2, Helicopter-Blades, helicopter2, Hip-Hip,Horn,
INVERS, jump, Jungle, Laser, laser4, Laugh, LEVELOK, notimportant, oof!,
oooo,  ouch1,  Owwwh, peow!, Pistol, plooshploosh, Poof, PopGun, Pulsar,
QUACK2,   revolver_shot,   Scotty,   SCREAM1,   select,   sfx-Bikecrash,
sfx-CatMeow, sfx-Sneeze, sfx-Thunder, sfx-whistl1, shipsnd, single_shot,
SkidMarks,  snd1,  space_alarm, space_alarm2, space_warp, splat, Spring,
steamboat_hoot, SweepUp, SweepUpshort, swish, Sword_clang, Sword_Clang2,
Sword_Clang_1,  Sword_Swipe,  tank,  thats  life,  thisis, Tiger, TRAIN,
trringg!,  uh  oh, uuuuhh, Water_drip, Waves, whoop, Wierd, wip, woowoo,
WowPulse, yip, Yodel, yougotit,

ADP 633
Sams

 
Samples with farmyard and birds themes.
Bird_sounds   BARNOWLS,   BIRD,  BIRDS,  BLACKBIR,  BUDGERIG,  DAWNCHOR,
NIGHTING,  OWL,  OWL2,  PEACOCKS,  ROBIN,  ROBIN2SN, SEAGULL3, SEAGULLS,
SKYLARKS, SONGTHRU, SWALLOWS, SWIFTSSN

Farm_Noises  CATLONGS,  CHICKENS,  CHICKSSN, COW, COW2, HORSE, HORSE2SN,
KITTENSN,  LAMB2, MEOW, MEOW2, PIGS, PONY, PUP, PUPPY, PUPPY2SN, QUACK2,
ROOSTER2, ROOSTERS, TURKEYSN, WHINNYSN

APD634
Sams 
 
Samples  for  kisses,  voices,  cartoons,  wildlife, insects, babies and
laughter.  Kisses KISS, KISS2, KISS3, MMMMM,
 Voices  GETOUTOF, GROAN, HELLO, HI, HITHERE, HUBBAHUB, ILLOGIC, LISTEN,
NO,  OHBOTHER,  OHBOY, OK, PWGIGGLE, RIGHTON, SCOTTHER, SNEEZE, SNEEZE2,
SPOCK2,
 Cartoon  DAFFYDIR  GOOFEDSN,  HEYWILMA,  NONEEDTO,  OWNSTREN, SNOOPY2S,
SNOOPYSN,  Wildlife BULLFROG, CHIMP, CHIMP2SN, DOGLONGS, ELEPHANT, FROG,
GROWL, HOOVESSN, LION, MONKEYSN, SEAL, SEALIONS, SNORT, STBERNAR, WOLF,
 Insects  CRICKET2, CRICKET3, CRICKETS, MOSQUITO, TETRASLY, WASP, Babies
BABYCRY, BABYLAUG, BABYSNEE, LAUGH
 Laughter ELMERSLA, LAUGH1SN, LAUGH2SN, LAUGH3SN, LAUGHSIC, LAUGHTER,

APD635
Sams
 
 Planes  CHOPPER,  CHOPPER2,  GQ,  JETFIGHT,  JETPASS,  JETSOUND, PLANE,
PLANEPAS,

 Cars  CAR, CAR2, CAR3, CARCRASH, CARHORN, DRAGRACE, FIREENGI, IGNITION,
MOTOR1, MOTOR2, MOTOR3, MOTOR4, REVUP1, REVUP2, SCREECH, 



               ==================== ART =================

APD003
fonts disk number 1

 
This  disc  contains  14  typefaces  for  use in AMOS or other programs.
Fonts include TIMES, COOKMAN, HELVETICA and TINY.

APD004
fonts disc number 2

 
13  more  typefaces  including  AVANT  GARDE,  CELTIC, PALO ALTO, BASEL,
PEIGNOT and ALDOUS.

APD005
fonts disc number 3

 
Yet  13  more typefaces including BROADWAY, CAMELOT, FUTURE, STENCIL and
VANCOUER.

APD038
iff fonts disc
"The Skunk" and Spadge
 
A  selection of IFF fonts converted from the ST by "The Skunk" plus some
superior  AMIGA  fonts  added by Spadge.  These can be cut into bobs and
used  in AMOS.  All fonts are displayed in a slide show format with some
music.

APD078
iff picture disc 4
Newsflash
 
A  selection  of  IFF  pictures from the Newsflash archives which in the
words  of  Martyn Brown makes it "incredibly trendy with loads of street
cred".   Actually  there are some stunning pics on this disc including a
lovely  kitten  in a boot, a giraffe, Jack Nicholson as the Joker, and a
tree frog - twenty pictures in all plus music.

APD118
fun school 3 sprites
Mandarin Software
 
This  disc was put into the Public Domain by Mandarin Software.  It is a
collection of the sprites used in the Fun School 3 program.

APD121
nik williams broadcast
nik williams
 
Contains  some  stunning  pictures  as  an example from the NIK WILLIAMS
BROADCAST COMPUTER PICTURES LIBRARY.  Please send more!

APD201
Slideshow
Ronnie Simpson

Please  order  APD202  (Disc 2) also.  This is a collection of digitised
pictures  of  a  very  high  standard.   The disc contains some stunning
pictures  in  three  categories.   One  contains  brilliant  pictures of
animals,  section  2  is  entitled FANTASY and contains some really good
quality  pictures.   The  third section is a favourite of the kids as it
contains  pictues  of American Wrestlers and they are currently big fans
of  Hulk  Hogan  who,  unfortunately, dosen't feature in this slideshow.
Some  of  the  FANTASY  section  may  not be suitable for young children
although  I didn't find anything offensive about them - it's a matter of
personal censorship.

APD247
deja vu slides 1
darrel belshaw
 
Disc  contains  screens from Colouring Book, Thingamajig, Jungle Bungle,
Pukadu, 4-Way Lynx and Work and Play.

APD248
Deja Vu Slides 2
Darrel Balshaw
 
Disc  contains  screens  from  AMOS  Assembler, Word Factory, Go-Getter,
Hypnotic Land, Play It Safe, Arc Angel's Shapes and Pictures.  Gives you
an idea of the quality of licenseware before you buy.

APD249
janet jackson
mark jarvis
 
Janet  Jackson's  Rhythm  Nation Demo.  Press return when it's loaded to
get the music going.  Lisen to the music and look at the black and white
digitised  pictures  of her.  If Michael Jackson has had so much plastic
surgery  as  the papers claim how does Janet manage to look so much like
him?   Sorry, I digress, this demo will probably appeal to Janet Jackson
fans.

APD328
Digi Demo Slides
Technical Fred Software
 
This  is  an  example  of  digitised  pictures  from  the Technical Fred
Digitising  Service  presented  in  a  nice slideshow program written in
AMOS.  Very high picture quality.  Impressive.

APD335
Digi Slide Show
Gary Shilvock.
 
A  Digi-Slideshow  of  10  colour  and black & white pictures for you to
enjoy.  Mostly on a fantasy theme.

APD392
IFF Landscapes (lores)
mark angel
 
This disk contains screen-shots of landscapes in lores for you to use as
backgrounds etc.  Disk autoboots for you to view.

APD393
IFF Landscapes (hires)
mark angel
 
A  disk  of  hires  landscapes  for  you  to use as backgrounds etc Disk
autoboots.

APD420
Ctext Fonts Disk 1
Compiled By Sparx
 
Also  needs  Ctext, although the fonts could be put to other uses.  Very
handy for those who do not have access to large numbers of fonts, or are
just too lazy to convert fonts for themselves!!!!!  There are three more
disks to collect in this series.
20018        4dbbs8      a646        akashai22    amber9     cutout21
andover7     artdeco11   artdeco28   avantg12     barn27     basel20
baselcb16    baselcb31   basic28     basic32      big16      bodoni20    
bold19       bookman11   bookman19   boston18     boxie17    boxy11
boxy8        broadway16  bubble14    bubble22     bubbles36  bwaydeco36  
byte16       byte8       c6          callisto18   camelot21  camelot23
casual19     celtic13    celtic28    chicago210   chicago30  cityhall18  
citylight14  citylight9  clean12     clean24      clean8     coleridge12
coleridge24  colossal8   comicbook13 condensed9   coop24     count16     
count8       countdown16 courier11   crown8       cry8       cupertino16
americantype12

APD421
Ctext Fonts Disk 2
Compiled By Sparx
 
Also needs Ctext.  See description for APD420.  This is the second in a
series of four disks.
cyber16      data12      dc8         diamond12    diamond24  didot12 
dpaint8      dreamworld8 elite60-9   emerald14    empire26   enlarged60-9
eobf6        eobf8       ericbd8     erics8       exceller8  expanded24
flow8        flowthin8   frizquad24   future15   garamond12  topaz9
garnet16     garnet9     garrison8   gene9        ghost27    glypha24
gogh24       gothic8     ham21       helvetica11  helvetica15hercules6
hollywood28  humanistic24ibm8        ice26        isolcsans  italic13
jubee24      keys14      koi8sans11  lancelot8    latin12    light12
lines21      london16    longi12     lores8       lubalin12  manhattan16
marble15     maths10     mbarn24     mchelt16     medium19   mega7    
mfast20      micro6      microsoft15 mini6        mpica21t   multi1-10
multi1-11    multi1-15   multi1-16   multi1-20    multi1-9   mysix6  
finalmission8

APD423
Ctext Fonts Disk 3
Compiled By Sparx
 
Also needs Ctext.  The third in the collection of Ctext Font Disks.  See
description for APD420.
napoleonic   narrow8     neat9       neuvo12      neuvo24    newcentury
newcenturyt  newlite24   news24      nineties16   nmt6       nostalgia1
novab13      novab20     novac20     noval20      noval8     novell12
novell9      oi12        omega20     one18        opal12     opal8 
outline14    outline24   outline8    palatino12   palatino24 paloalto15
paradox8     paris24     parkave17   pc-clone12   pc-clone24 pc-clone8
pcfont8      pcourier14  pearl8      peridot8     phelvetica24
philly12     philly16    pica60-9    pica80-9     pinball16  pinoccio8
poolrad8     ports13     ports8      poster16     premiere28 psymbol12
ptefont8     ptimes12    ray16       rdk1-13      rdk1-8     romamed18
roman10      roman8      rome13      ruby16       sanim8     santiago18
sapphire19

APD424
Ctext Fonts Disk 4
Compiled By Sparx.
 
Needs Ctext.  The fourth in the series.  See description for APD420.
script13     script17    scrith10    scrith16     serif19    serif29
serpentine15 shadow21    siesta8     silicon16    simplex8   skinny8
slant8       slope16     souvenere12 souvenir24   specials21 specials26
spy9         squiggle30  st8         startrek14   startrek22 stencil15
stencil30    stiletto19  stops16     stops8       stripes21  swansong15
symbols8     terminal7   theworks12  theworks24   theworks6  times11
times13      times15     times24     trump19      two26      two27
two28        typewrite16 typewriter19 vancouver14 vancouver24 vintro26
warbles12    warbles24   xfont8      zbisc33      zrome33

APD598
Totally Amos Art#1
Various
 
This  disk  has  been  compiled from contributions sent in by readers of
Totally Amos.  The screens include pictures, sprites, tiles etc.  

APD624
Percy's Adventures
Harvey Ball
 
This is volume one of two so far produced. There are 2 stories on this
disk, Percy goes to the dentist and Percy goes shopping. They are short
stories told in comic book style. Might be useful for those who want to
contruct something similar.

APD625
The Cyborg Carrot
Harvey BAll
 
This is a grisley tale of a cybornetic carrot told in comic book style.
Hard to describe, really!

APD626
Percy's Adventures 2
Harvey Ball
 
Volume two in the series of everyday adventures of Percy. Here he visits
the doctor and also has a haircut.

              ==================== DEMOS ================

APD009
Amos Big Demo V4
Peter Hickman
 
The demo written by Peter Hickman to show off AMOS.  Although originally
written  on  an early version of AMOS it is still quite impressive.  The
disc  also  includes  an  extract  from  Newsflash  -  an interview with
Francois Lionet.

APD019
microman's ball demo
robert wilson
 
Microman's Music Sensitive Balls comprises 15 pieces of music along with
some  dancing  balls.  The source code is accessible so you can see just
how  it  was  done.   If  you've  got 1/2 meg you lose out on one of the
tunes.

APD020
arc angel demo
arc angel
 
Have  you  ever seen a breakdancing bunny?  No!  Well neither have I but
this  demo contains a bunny who stamps his feet in time to the music and
a frantic fiddler amongst others.  Well put together for a first demo.

APD022
fun school III demo
peter hickman
 
The  third in Database Software's excellent Fun School series.  Just sit
back  and  let  teddy show you all three age groups in this new package.
Shows how useful AMOS can be in promoting software in demo form.

APD033
pink goes ape
arc angel
 
The  opening  sequence  of this scrolling demo features an animated Pink
Panther  plus  the  Pink Panther theme.  Lots of good music accompanying
the scrolling message on the split screen.

APD037
arc angel demo 3
arc angel
 
Is there no stopping him?  This one is BRIGHT!!  All I said was that the
text  in  the PINK demo was a bit dismal and he presented me with this!!
Not a bad scrolling demo with some useful routines.

APD051
weird science demo
david law
 
High  quality  digitised  graphics from Back To The Future II.  David is
willing  to digitise video pictures of your choice for the measly sum of
£2.50  a  disc.  When you've seen the quality on this disc you'll snatch
his hand off!!

APD053
Curos And Stavros 1

 
Curos  and  Stavros  Mega  Demo  II is a neat demo with some very useful
routines.

APD081
jukebox demo

 
Please order APD082 (Disc 2) also.  This is a two disc music player.  It
has  been featured in the screen shots on one of Mandarin Software's new
AMOS ads!

APD099
benson demo I
leslie benzies
 
This  is the winning demo in Mandarin Software's competition.  Excellent
routines.

APD100
amos demo II
peter hickman
 
This  is  the demo that Mandarin were displaying at the Computer Shopper
Show.  Contains some very useful routines.

APD109
Weird Science II
David Law
 
WEIRD SCIENCE DEMO II:  BIRDS OF PREY is another collection of beautiful
pictures  from  David's  digitising  service.  This time containing some
stunning pictures of birds.

APD112
panthorus demo 1

 
Please  order APD113 (Disc 2) also.  This is a two disc demo released to
celebrate Panthorus' first birthday.  Nice demo with some good routines.

APD114
Predator Demo
Robots
 
Music player that shows off some digitised pictures from PREDATOR.  Neat
demo.

APD124
bob maniacs
syntex
 
Excellent demo of bob routines.

APD125
benson demo II
leslie benzies
 
Another good demo with some excellent routines.  Well put together.

APD126
dreamers disc mag
paul harthen
 
New  disc  magazine  put together using AMOS which also contains an AMOS
section.

APD127
cybornetics demo 2

 
Access  to the 7 demos on this disc is from a simple menu.  My favourite
is ROB'S SIMPSONS RIP OFF.  There's also a simple animation - gory!!

APD131
armageddon demo
syntex
 
Yet another quality demo from Syntex.  Superb graphics on this one.

APD155
Panthorus Demo 2

 
A  musicplayer  to  play your AMOS music.  Press fire on the joystick to
change the music.

APD168
curos & stavros I

 
Please  order  APD169  (Disc  2)  also.  This is a two disc demo.  Music
player with an animated bunny on one of the songs.

APD185
gaz & matt's demo
gaz & matt
 
Please  order  APD186  (Disc  2) also.  One meg is required for this two
disc demo.  Some excellent routines.

APD193
fizzy pop demo

Please  order APD194 (Disc 2) and APD195 (Disc 3) also.  This is a THREE
disc demo containing some well REMmed routines aimed at AMOS beginners.

APD203
xenomorphs demo
robots
 
Xenomorphs  & Fractalmania are the two parts in this demo.  They contain
some  good routines which may be of use to other AMOS programmers.  Good
graphics and music.

APD204
robots megademo 1
robots
 
Lots  of different bob routines.  This is another well presented demo by
Robots.

APD207
madness week demo
syntex
 
Please  order  APD208  (Disc 2) also.  Disconnect DF1:  for some reason,
best known to the programmers.  This is an excellent demo once more from
Syntex.  This demo is the one used by Mandarin (or Europress Software as
they  now  wish to be known) in their most recent ad.  It's the one that
is  reminiscent  of  Shadow  of the Beast.  Control the "Beast" with the
joystick  and  enter  different  parts  of  the  demo  by  going through
different doors.

APD209
fanatix demo 1

 
Please  order  APD210  (Disc  2) also.  This two disc demo contains some
good  routines.  The group responsible for it wants to get in touch with
other AMOS demo groups so drop them a line if you're into coding demos.

APD213
dreamers 5.1

 
Sadly  this  is  the  last disc mag from DREAMERS.  They also wish me to
point  out  that  their  PD  library is no longer operating.  Could be a
collector's item this one.

APD214
hanissis 5 demo 1
shock wave & pinnicle
 
This  group  doesn't usually program in AMOS but they have released this
disc  so  that  you  can  use  the  code  in your own demos.  I was very
impressed  with  the  quality  of  this  demo.   It  contains  some (not
"proper") 3D vector routines, use the mouse to zoom in and out.  There's
some useful code on this disc.

APD216
fanatix megademo 2


Please order APD217 (Disc 2) also.  Please note:  THIS DISC REQUIRES TWO
DRIVES.  Good graphics and effects in this demo.  Nice use of bobs and I
particularly liked the end sequence.

APD227
robots hq demo
robots

Please  order  APD228 (Disc 2) also.  The "welcome" part of this disc is
to  introduce a new member.  The next part of the demo is a music player
with  3  decent songs.  Graveyard Beats by Paul Harthen, Acieed!  by Ian
Faichnie  (new member) and Revolution by Paul Harthen.  F2 gets you into
the  "HQ"  part.   You  are  presented  with a picture of Robot's HQ and
invited  to  touch  different  parts  of the screen to see what happens.
Press on the brain for a laugh.

APD239
fanatix music 1

 
Please order APD240 (Disc 2) also.  If you have an external drive please
disconnect.   It  is a music player with all the normal facilities, fast
forward,  rewind  etc.   and  a  cassette  turning when the music plays.
Music  on  the  disc  is  Kilikanzaro  -  Crusaders,  Imaginary  Woman -
Cryptoburners,  This  Was  The  Dream  -  T.H.R.,  Hip  For  Da  Hoop  -
Slipstream,  Torture - S.A.E., Scoopex Theme - Scoopex, Toxic - Anthrox,
True Faith - 4-Mat, Dragon - Escape/Outlaws, Unknown!!  - Securtiate and
Night Fiction.

APD255
hanissis v demo 2
shockwave and pinnacle
 
I  really  like what this group is trying to do for AMOS.  Unlike Syntex
demos  all  their  code  is unlocked.  Their idea is to help improve the
standard of AMOS demos.  In this one they challenge other demo groups to
do  better.  Contains bob routines to blow your socks off - well I think
they're  good anyway.  Unlimited bobs with a new direction effect that I
haven't  seen before.  Unlimited bobs with a bubble effect.  Very smooth
multi-layer parallax starfields.  Great music too.  More please.

APD261
fanatix demo 3


Please order APD262 (disc 2) when ordering this.  First off there's a 2D
line demo, very pretty.  Then there's the equaliser bars with music from
Cryptic UK.  Rotating scroller demo conatained a lot of text that I felt
obliged  to  censor.   Sorry  about  that lads but I won't publish demos
containing  four  letter  words.   The next bit is called 'Star Harrier'
which  is  fairly self-explantory.  Then we come to the star of the show
'Unlimited  Bobs'  that  you can control with the mouse.  There are some
excellent effects achieved in this demo I just wish they'd stop slagging
off the PD library.  I do my best.

APD263
fanatix demo 4

 
Please order APD264 (disc 2) when ordering this disc.  Would you believe
it in this demo they are complaining about being censored!!  I give up!!
The  first  bit  demonstrates the smooth hardware scrolling that AMOS is
capable  of.   The  second  part contains a fast moving game of Breakout
controlled  with  the  mouse.  Next bit has a very smooth dual scroller.
Another good demo from Fanatix packed with interesting routines and many
more parts.

APD265
time demo
looping
 
Simple  demo  disc containing all the usual demo routines including star
fields,  vu  meters  and  nice  music.  There is a little animation of a
ninja  at  the bottom of the screen which is quite nice.  Nothing really
new.

APD266
Amos 3D Demo

 
I suggest you buy this demo before you buy Amos 3D as this will show you
just what can be done with the new Amos module.  This demo is absolutely
fantastic  and  all the graphics are so smooth in motion you would think
they  were produced in machine code.  This demo is very good and even if
you  aren't  going to buy Amos 3D at least buy this to see what you will
be missing!

APD270
vic reeves slides

 
This  disc  is  absolutely jam packed with digitised pictures and sounds
from  the  popular  Vic  Reeves  Big Night Out television program.  Such
famous  lines  as  "You wouldn't let it lie" are included but it must be
stated that non Vic Reeves fans will not like this disc!

APD272
Cybornetics Demo 3

 
The  demo  starts  off with a fake Guru message that I must admit had me
fooled  for  a short while (very short).  There are 6 parts to this demo
all  which  can  be chosen off a menu.  Move Ya Mouse - use the mouse to
move  different objects around, very good.  Line Game 2 - this is a nice
version of the old light cycles game for up to 4 players.  Matt's Demo -
simple  stuff with a bouncing CYBORNETIC.  Head Anim - strange animation
of  an  axe  chopping  someone  in  half.   Head  Anim 2 - another weird
animation  of  someone  being  shot.  Strange indeed!  Rob's Demo - very
nice graphics, lots of nice screen wipes and strange effects.  Good demo
disc.

APD273
beer demo

 
Not  really  a  demo  disc  this  but  a  collection of programs brought
together  and  labelled BEER MANIA.  WasterPaint - nice painting program
with lots of option.  MandelMaster - a full featured mandelbrot creating
program.   Black  Gold Demo - bob routines with a big scroller and large
vu  meter.   Simon - good version of the old classic "Simon" game.  Good
disc.

APD274
Fracgen II Slides
Gary Shilvock
 
This  is  a  slideshow  containing  pictures  created  with  Fracgen  II
(LPD036).   These pictures are absolutely fantastic and if this does not
convince you that you should buy Fracgen II then nothing will.

APD275
dark ages demo
syntex

Please  order APD276 (Disc 2) when ordering this disc.  PLEASE NOTE THIS
IS  A  COMPILED  DEMO - source code not included.  You won't believe the
quality  of  this  demo,  it  will  take  your  breath away.  The music,
graphics (in fact everything) are completely unbelievable.  The starting
scenes  are  completely  flawless.   This  2  disc demo features paralax
scrolling,  vector  graphics,  great  text effects, plasma screens, very
large  scrollers  (no jerk what so ever), starfields and much much more.
This demo is a MUST!

APD291
structured insanity
fanatix
 
This  is  the  latest  demo  from  Fanatix.   It contains some very nice
routines  and  must  rate  as  this  groups best demo to date.  The demo
includes  hypnotic  rings(!),  balls  made  from points bouncing around,
freaky  screen  patterns, fast and smooth bobs, cycling dot patterns and
bob flags.  Purely fantastic (or Fanatix)!

APD294
Weird Science III
Weird Science
 
Another  quality slideshow from the digitising firm Weird Science.  This
time  the  pictures  are  under the heading of Born To Be Free and are a
collection  of wildlife pictures.  All of them are HAM mode and they are
all top quality.

APD304
fizzy pop

 
BOUNCE  AROUND  MUSIC  DEMO.   This  is  a  simple  demo,  nothing  very
spectacular,  featuring  a  starfield,  copper bars, ball vu meter and a
very  slow  scrolly.  Click the left button to load a different piece of
music.  The music isn't that bad and some of it is quite nice.

APD307
fanatix megademo 5

 
Another  5  part  megademo  by  Fanatix  that  has  got very good music,
graphics  and  effects but unfortunately is COMPILED.  The demo includes
sinus  scrolling,  line  drawing  effects and other routines.  Shame you
can't get at them though!

APD309
reinca demo
reinca
 
THIS  DEMO  IS  COMPILED.   There  are 6 parts to this megademo and they
include an impressive unlimited bobs demo, some nice music and graphics,
good  scrolling  routine,  bouncing  letters  and  a bouncing ball demo.
Nothing very spectacular and it is a shame it can't be used for routines
as it ist compiled.

APD327
MTV Demo
Patrik And Ronny
 
This  is  a  strange  demo  and  involves a strange piece of music and a
rather  plain  screen  apart  from  two  big  boxes containing digitised
pictures  of  two  men  whose mouths open in time to the music.  Nothing
amazing but certainly different!

APD338
Judgement Day
Syntex.
 
 Syntex again show off their superb scrolling talents in this demo named
`Judgement Day'.  How do they do it?

APD339
Cyclone
Syntex.
 
 A  disc  full of Syntex goodies to amze you.  These boys really show us
what AMOS can do.

APD349
A Step Forward
Yazoo
 
A  demo showing various graphic effects from scrolly messages to screens
with plasma displays.  Plenty to look at for ideas.

APD356
Powerbase V2.0 Demo
Amivision
 
This is a demo version of Amivisions database on the LPD range it allows
you  to  try  out  the program before you buy.  Also gives news of other
Amivision programs.

APD364
Zenn Soundbox II

 
This  is  the second soundbox from Zenn.  There is a good display screen
with  Vumeter  bars  bouncing to the beat.  Options include changing the
tune,  adjusting  the  volume  & turning the LED on/off.  There are nine
tunes,   SAMAURI,  WALKER,  LAMENT,  FAST  BEAT,  FAST  TRAIN,  MACHINE,
ARMALYTE, ARTAARTA and COUNTDOWN.

APD368
Jabberwok Demo
Robert Tansley
 
This  demo is pure Amos Basic, it does not use Amos 3-D or the Compiler.
There  are  some  nice 3-D effects accompanied by good music.  There are
also some other interesting effects in this demo.

APD374
Celestial Visions
Fanatix
 
This  offering  from  Fanatix is a slideshow of eight lovely pictures on
the  theme  of  space.   it  includes  spaceships and planet landscapes.
These  pictures  are  accompanied by a sinewave scroller of text telling
you  about  the disc.  The End Demo sends greetings, thanks and messages
to Fanantix contacts.

APD376
Megademo 6
Fanatix
 
Needs  APD377.   This  really is a MEGAdemo with 2 discs crammed full of
interesting   demos.    These   include   Unlimited  Bobs  2,Full  metal
vectors,How  I  won  the war, (quite amusing, shows Sadam and John Major
'talking'  to  each  other  in  time to the music), Lights Alive, Psycho
Bobs,  Copperblitz, Multiscrol 3 (very effective) and Cute Fish which is
a  great  little  game,  you are a goldfish who has to catch food whilst
avoiding the shark.  To end there is an End Part demo.  Well recommended
for  Demo  freaks.   Source  code  included.   N.B.  THIS DEMO NEEDS TWO
DRIVES.

APD378
Structured Insanity II
Fanatix
 
This  single  disc demo from Fanatix needs all the memory it can get, so
disable  those  drives!  The source code for this collection is included
on  the disc as a crunched Ascii file to be decrunched with PowerPacker.
The   demos   include   Plasma  mind  blowers,  3-D  vectors,  unlimited
bobs,stencil  vectors,  filled  shapes,  3-D  vectors (need Specs), MEGA
scroller   (enormous!),  vector  bobs,  Flag  vector  and  pretty  maths
patterns.

APD387
Rainbow Educational Demo
Rainbow Software
 
This  is  a  demo  of  three  programs  released  by Rainbow Educational
Software.   If  you  are  looking for lower priced educational software,
then  take  a  look  at  this demo to get an idea of what Rainbow has on
offer.

APD396
Purple Haze Demo
Quatos
 
This  demo  contains  various  effect  to  amaze  you!  There is a radar
screen,  plasma  effects  done  by cycling, 3-D vectors, music, bobs and
more!  Source included, interesting disk.

APD388
Terrax Demo

 
This  little  demo  shows some interesting screens which could be useful
for beginners to look at.  Smooth demo well presented.

APD398
Cubic Demo
Shockwave
 
This  demo  is by Shockwave (aka Nick Simpson of Hanissis V fame).  This
demo  is definately up to the high standards of his previous work and is
a  must  for  avid  Demo  collectors.   There  is a scrolling commentary
throughout to let you know what's going on, and you can exit any section
by  clicking  the mouse button, which is a very handy feature that other
demo writers should use!  First of all we have some new scroll ideas the
first  winds its way around the screen, the second can only be described
as  stretchy  and  bouncy,  next  comes a sine scroller.  The Cubic logo
appears  next  as  a  huge  wavy word.  The next section is dedicated to
Sharon, who no doubt has to share Nick's free time with his Amiga!  Also
in  the  demo  are  pixel dot effects, a picture, a joystick controlable
chess floor and mind-boggling circles.  Recommended.

APD404
Alpha Demo
Adrian Jenkins
 
This  is the author's first demo.  It contains routines that might be of
use  to  the less experienced demo writers.  Contains an amusing Mr Pain
charcter, music and scrollers.

APD406
Powerbase V3.00 Demo
Stephen Rennocks
 
This is a demo version of Stephen's Powerbase program which is available
on   the  Licensed  Software  range  from  Deja  Vu  or  any  Authorised
Distributor,  including the APDL.  The <SAVE> feature has been disabled.
Full description available in the Licenseware section of this catalogue.

APD407
Formula 1 Challenge Demo
Stephen Rennocks
 
This is a demo of the latest version of Formula 1 Challenge.  An earlier
version  is  available  on  Deja Vu's Licensed Software Range, available
from  Deja  Vu and all Authorised Distributors, including APDL.  You can
play  this  game which has all the info on the 1992 season included, but
the  <SAVE>  feature  has  been disabled.  Details on obtaining the full
version are on the disk, full description in Licenseware section of this
catalogue.

APD408
Sparx Licenseware Demos 1
Len & Anne Tucker
 
This  disk  contains  demo versions of 3 Sparx Licensed Software titles.
These  are  cut  down  versions  of the programs, all are playable.  Try
before  you buy!  Full versions available from Deja Vu or any Authorised
Distributor  including  APDL.  This disk contains Jungle Bungle (L/005),
Play  it  Safe (L/014) and Jigmania (L/013).  Full game descriptions are
featured in the Licenseware section of the catalogue.

APD409
Sparx Licenseware Demos 2
Len & Anne Tucker
 
This  disk  contains  three more Licensed Software demos.  Full versions
are available from Deja Vu or any Authorised Distributor including APDL.
For  full  game  descriptions, see the licenseware section of this disk.
The  programs  for  you  to  try  before  you buy are Marvin the Martian
(L/049), Thingamajig (L/004) and Work & Play (L/008).

APD426
Golden Ages
Omega
 
Needs  disk  427  as well.  This demo takes us back to the Golden Age of
the Speccy and the C64, which for those of you who are younger than some
of  us,  were  the computers that were around before the Amiga!!!!  Look
out for the mock Guru Box which pops up, it caught me out good & proper!
Interesting demo.

APD429
The After Time Demo
Andy Paul
 
This  disk  also  contains  'Secret Data Base' which is written by Marco
Pinto  from  Portugal.   This  is  a  little database which you may find
interesting.   Back to the Demo!  This is a source only demo which tells
a  story  about  Life  on  Earth after man wiped himself off the planet.
This  is  Andy's  first  demo,  it is a bit jerky in places, but this is
because  it  is  being run through Amos.  Some interesting scrollers and
effects for you to look at.

APD437
Zirus Megademo 1
Paul Harthen
 
This  is a four part demo accessed via a central menu using the Function
keys.   Paul  apologises  for  this 'rough and ready' menu but he's been
busy.   The  demo  gives  you  a  bouncy  scrolling  message, pretty dot
patterns (which Paul credits to another PD demo which he can't remember)
There  is  a scroller which is the height of the screen and moves really
smoothly.   The  end  part  shows  the credits and a long bouncy message
scroller.   Source  is  provided  as an ascii file which you can load as
Merge  Ascii  into  the Amos editor.  You will need Ctext to run it from
Amos.

APD440
Scum
Futurize
 
This  is  the first demo from Futurize, a Finnish demo group who plan to
give  you  lots  more  Amos programs.  Future productions include a disk
magazine  which  will  be sent when it is complete.  Source is provided,
but  you  will  need  Amos  3-D  to run it from the editor, although, of
course,  anyone  may runthe Compiled version.  The demo includes various
3-D  routines,  an  add for Futurize's mag, Heavy Fuel, a couple of mind
blowing  screen  effects,  a  nice  whirlpool dots picture and ends with
credits and greetings.  Smooth work from Finland!

APD444
Brain Damage
Cubic
 
One of the few Demo writers who will provide source for budding demoists
to look at is Nick 'Cubic' Simpson.  Take a look at this one and see how
all  the  demo effects are created.  This single disk demo runs for over
20 minutes (if you read all the scrollers!)

APD456
Digital Orgasm
Cubic
 
This  is  Cubic's  answer  to  FANATIX  Megademo 7.  It contains lots of
effects  for  you  to look at as well as the source code so that you can
see  how the effects were created.  The title may be suggestive, but the
contents are good, clean Amos coding!!!

APD474
Tumpty & Firework Alphabet
C. Paterson
 
This  is  a demo version of an educational program which the author will
be  selling  herself,  full  details  are on the disk.  This is a letter
recognition game and we are here given one section to play.  The correct
responses are rewarded by a firework display.  A very promising idea.

APD488
Mach II Demo
Icky
 
This  is  the  second demo from Icky, the first, Freestyle is in the GPD
section.  This one contains most of the source code used for the demo so
that you can see how it was created.  Karl Roberts, aka Icky, has spoken
to us and has said thhat he is willing to help other demo writers.  Find
his address on the disk.

APD491/492
No Refund
Cybornetics
 
THIS  IS  A 2 DISK DEMO so I'm sorry but it costs the same as 2 seperate
disks.  The source code is included on the disk, but we have been warned
that  it needs more than 1 meg of memory to be run from the Amos editor.
Lots of great routines are included as well as a shoot'em up game.

APD498
Fun With Cubby Demo
Aaron McCormick
 
This  is  a demo version of Aaron's Licenseware program of the same name
which  is to be found in CLR Licenseware.  This demo gives you access to
the Paint With Cubby Art package, the other sections are disabled.

APD499
Fun With Cubby 2 Demo
Aaron McCormick
 
This  demo  shows  you  two sections fron this CLR program.  Cubby 1 was
good, but c_

APD551
Insomnia 5
From Australia
 
Aussie demo

APD552
Source Code Demos
From Australia
 
Code for Vidi Demo and Leo Demo.

APD553
Source Code Demos
From Australia
 
Various code for demos and intros.

APD554
Demo Source Code
From Australia
 
Source  code for Dick Tracy Demo, Scroll Demo, Skull Demo and Twighlight
Zone.

APD555
Guru Time Demo
From Australia
 
Previously known as AUS 23.

APD556
It Read Top Secret
From Australia
 
A demo with source code.

APD557
Corruption Demo
From Australiia
 
Another demo from Australia.

APD583
Makka Demo -The 1st.
From Australia
 
Check out the Australian competition!

APD584
Harvey Demo
From Australia
 
This demo is Source only and needs Amos with Amos 3-D attached. This is
a disk to get if you need some 3-D objects to play with.

APD585
Insanity
From Australia
 
This is a demo by Dark Horse.

APD586
Lies
From Australia
 
This is a long demo which after an intro, gives you the complete history
of scrolling messages written in Amos and how new methods have improved
the quality.

APD587
Demo and games
From Australia
 
This disk contains Mega demo,, Alien Bounce and another Aussie Lotto
program.

APD607
Digital Orgasm II
Shockwave/Cubic
 
This is what Shock wave has in this demo - one of the few with Amos
Source!
             Cool Intro Sequence!          Nifty graphics!
                   3D Lightsourced Spheres in 1 VBL!
          16 RGB Bobs in 1 VBL!         80 Shadebobs in 1 VBL!
                     500 Sinedots in 1 VBL!        
         170*170 3 Bitplane transforming filled cube in 1 VBL!
      170*170 Rgb Vector in 1 VBL!  160*160 Filled Disk in 2 VBLS!
  25 Vectorbobs in 1 VBL!       Cool 3D spinning chessboard in 1 VBL!
        Lovely Design!                Full Source Code on disk!
                          Excellent as always!

APD609
Mal's Demo Versions Disk
Malcolm Lavery
 
Malcolm has sent us a disk which contains demo versions of programs
which as being sold as NBA Licenseware, without code, or with code
direct from Malcolm.
The disk contains demo versions of Sonic Drum Kit and the Game Map
editor. Also on the disk is the full PD version of Mal's Zone Editor and
a few useful & Interesting procedures.

       ================ AMOS GAMES WITH SOURCE =================

APD002
treasure search
peter hickman
 
Hunt   for  treasure  in  this  clever  educational  co-ordinates  game.
Excellent  sound  and graphics make this game fun for everyone from 2 to
92!

APD059
super quiz
t.d.harris
 
A  little  short on documentation but great fun if you do the same as we
did.   Two  teams,  a few drinks and cheat like mad!  The questions were
too hard for Martyn Brown, I reckon he might be a bit too young for some
of  them  'cos  they gave us "over thirties" no problem.  You can always
look at the code for answers anyway if you have AMOS.

APD062
arcadia
ronnie simpson
 
Remove  2nd  drive with 1/2 meg memory.  This is a personal favourite of
mine.    Very   playable   and   addictive   version   of   the  popular
Arkanoid/Breakout  game.   You even get a level designer so you can edit
this game to your heart's content.  Highly recommended.

APD085
reversi & snakes

 
Reversi  is  an  absolutely  brilliant version of Othello.  I can't stop
playing it.

APD097
Dynamite dick
adam leech
 
Quite  a  nice  little game in which you collect the treasure, blast the
monsters  and  find the key for the next level.  Also on the disc by the
same programmer is a slideshow and demo.  Recommended.

APD102
chainsaw death
jaron collis
 
Very unusual two player game with excellent documentation.  A futuristic
board game which has you actually moving about a maze.

APD103
pick-up-a-puzzle
len tucker
 
Temporarily withdrawn
This disk has corrupted, and we have lost the source code! Does anyone
have a very early version we could have a copy of? (write to usual
address, all costs repaid!)
Jigsaw  puzzles to solve with three levels of difficulty.  Good graphics
and well presented.

APD104
P-u-a-p Data Disc
Len Tucker
 
This  is  a data disc containing more jigsaw puzzles.  The disc requires
APD103 - Pick-Up-A-Puzzle. (unavailable at present)

APD105
picture it
m. wellman

Two disc game.  Put the picture back together within a time limit.  Very
hypnotic effects as the pieces float around the screen.  Needs APD106.

APD110
cross fire
roger north
 
Very  nice game.  Keeps the kids occupied for ages!  Had good reviews in
the glossies.

APD115
balloonacy
delboy dodson
 
A  variation  on  the  classic "Bomber" game with some good graphics and
amusing  touches.  Had good reviews in the magazines.  Plus users please
note:  Re-Boot after reading the instructions.

APD123
deadline
aaron fothergill
 
What better way to show off the capabilities of AMOS TOME than to create
a playable game with it!  If you're thinking of buying AMOS TOME, or you
have  already  got  a copy, then this disc is a must.  If you don't have
AMOS then the disc is worth having for the game itself.

APD130
the wooden ball
patrik holstrom
 
This  game is Shareware.  It is a futuristic ball game where you have to
score  goals  against  an  opponent.  You can set the speed at which the
game  is played.  Very good graphics.  Well worth a look.  The shareware
fee for this game is disks not money.

APD135
simon says & maths
graham woodcock
 
Nice version of SIMON SAYS that is very well presented.  SAPCE MATHS has
five  difficulty  levels  depending on the age of the player.  The first
level caters for children under five and fifth level for over 16's.

APD136
maths calculator 1.1
simon jewell
 
Also  on  this  disc is VENDREDI, a calendar program by Frederic Simian.
MATHS  CALCULATOR is a very well documented program.  It covers Area and
Volume,  Addition,  Subtraction, Multiplication, Division, Fractions and
Percent.   Future  updates are planned for Trigonometry (I hated that at
school!).   On  loading you are presented with a menu.  You must use the
numbers  on  the  keypad  not  the  keyboard.   There is speech when you
complete  a  set  number  of questions.  Well produced progam that shows
much  promise  for  futher  updates.   VENDREDI  hails  all the way from
France.   It is an icon driven electronic diary.  It includes a calendar
with  diary,  an  address  book and a manager for bank accounts.  As the
program  saves  to  disk you should use a backup.  Nicely presented with
English instructions.

APD137
tile trial
dominic ramsey
 
Another  quality  game  from the programmer of REVERSI.  This program is
shareware.   Tile  Trial  is a sliding puzzle game.  Each puzzle must be
completed within a time limit.

APD138
languages tutor
k. grigg
 
Build  up  your Spanish vocabulary with this program.  Three options are
given  -  English  to  Spanish,  Spanish to English and a random option.
Program now covers French and German also.

APD139
master race
k. grigg
 
A  quiz  game  with a difference for 1 or 2 players.  Set in outer space
the  object  of  the game is to answer the questions correctly.  You can
then  advance  towards  your  opponents planet.  You need to land on its
centre  square  to  win.   You have three ships but lose one for every 5
questions you answer wrong.  When all three are lost you lose the game.

APD141
Amos Games 1
Adam Barker, Creative Software & C.l. Naylar
 
Four runnable games on one disc.  THE HACKER SIMULATOR by Adam Barker is
a simulation of hacking money and using the share markets to make money.
Full  documentation  is  supplied.   COMPUTERFAX  by  Creative  Software
Applications  is like the pages off a teletext T.V.  Users have to alter
and  make  their  own  pages.   Full  documentation.   ATISHOO by C.  L.
Naylar  is  a game where you have to match tiles or bricks by design and
colour.   Good  graphics.  MATCH_CARDS by C.  L.  Naylar is a one or two
player game based on "Concentration".  Match the cards.

APD142
Pair Crazy
Creative Software Applications
 
Match  the  cards  to make a pair.  Choice of music and sound effects is
given  at  the start.  It is a two player game with one player using the
cursor  keys  and  player  two defining his/her own keys.  I wouuld have
preferred the cards a little larger.  Neatly put together game.

APD146
fruit machine
steve potts & mark cameron
 
Two games with a fruity theme.  FRUIT MACHINE by Steve Potts will run on
1/2 meg machines with DF1:  disconnected.  Has full documentation on the
disc.  Contains all the facilities of a fruit machine, i.e.  nudge, hold
and  gamble.   Good  graphics.   FRUIT CRUSH by Mark Cameron is a puzzle
game.   Full  documentation  on  the  disc.  Not an easy game.  Uses the
mouse.

APD147
Amos Games 2
Various Authors
 
This disc contains a version of MAHJONG by Fred Quadt, GRUBGRABBER II by
Chris Hurst, SKYBLITZ by Tom and Kev and SPINVADERS by Brian Hills.

APD148
demolition mission
sarog
 
The  source  code  for  this  game  is on APD021.  A good version of the
popular BOMBER game.  Simple enough for children to play.

APD149
gobbit & pontoon
c. brown & p. d. wheatstone
 
GOBBIT  by  C.   Brown.  Guide your Psycho Ninja Gobbit (frog?) over all
the  squares to change their colour, avoiding bumping into the "baddies"
of  course.   You begin on a pyramid, now I know this changes to another
shape  on  Level  2  but I haven't got any futher!  Not due to a lack of
skill  you  understand, more to lack of time.  (Pause for big laugh - my
lack  of  skill with the joystick is well known!).  Very well presented.
Good graphics and music.  Also on the disc is the old favourite PONTOON.
This  version  is  by  P.   D.   Wheatstone.  Mouse controlled with full
documentation.   This is the sort of gambling I don't mind 'cos it's not
real  money!   Play  against the computer.  You both start with $100 and
have  a  choice of stake from $1 to $9.  All the usual options are there
i.e.  twist stick or buy.

APD153
Missile Command
Daniel Bond
 
A simple game that will work on 1/2 megabyte machines.

APD160
amos quizmaster
mark venn
 
This is a shareware program.  Quite a good quiz game.

APD166
P-u-a-p Data Disc 2
Len Tucker
 
Yet  another  disc  of  jigsaw  puzzles  by  Len Tucker for use with his
program Pick-Up-A-Puzzle.  Needs APD103.

APD167
Jigmania Data 1
Len Tucker
 
This disc is a collection of jigsaw puzzles by Len Tucker.  They are for
use in his licenseware game JIGMANIA.  This disc needs LPD013 to work.

APD175
frantix & m.z.p.p.
chris banks
 
There are two AMOS games on this disk - FRANTIX and MUTANT ZOMBIE PSYCHO
PIGS both by Chris Banks.

APD178
mastermind & pair up
vidar martinsen & mike wellman
 
MASTERMIND  v2.1 by Vidar Martinsen from Norway.  Use right mouse button
to  access  the  menu  at the top of the screen so that you can view the
instructions  and  type the names of the player(s).  Good version of the
old  classic.   PAIR UP by Mike Wellman with music by Luke Miller.  Nice
maze  game  where you have to collect items and avoid baddies.  Two good
games on one disc.

APD180
Dungeon Delver
Luke Miller
 
NOW  ON ONE DISK!!!!  You must control Garf using the joystick and guide
him  through  fourteen  levels  of the dungeon in search of the captured
Wizard Meredith.  Full documentation on the disc.

APD182
Pixie Kingdom
Luke Miller
 
NOW  ON  ONE  DISK!!!!  You have to rescue the pixies.  Lots of fighting
goes on in this game with lots of hazards to overcome during your quest.

APD184
towers of hanoi
delboy dodson
 
Transfer  rings from one pile to another without breaking the few simple
rules  of the game.  Also on the disc is CAL_MATHS by Shieldsoft to test
you  on  your maths and CALENDAR which is a utility to give you a screen
display of any year with an option of printing.  Very easy to use.

APD189
Make-4 & Golf Score
D.R.Tart & Ross Cleary
 
MAKE-4 by D.  R.  Tart is a simple version of the old favourite "Connect
4".   GOLF SCORE by Ross Cleary is a program to enable the golfers among
you keep track of your rounds of golf.

APD190
blackbelt
simon walklate
 
This is an unusual game in which you have to waggle the joystick to gain
enough power to do karate chops on a wall within a time limit.

APD198
bombs from baghdad
stealth software
 
Bombs  From Baghdad is an unusual game and, unfortunately, quite topical
considering  recent events in the Gulf.  You are given a briefing at the
beginning  of  the  game  in  which  you  are  informed that you have to
intercept  aircraft  which  are bent on destroying you.  This is a novel
game and although I would have personally preferred a less topical theme
it  is,  to  coin  a  phrase,  all  done  "in  the best possible taste".
Prodigal Son by John Filsak is also on this disc and is a text adventure
based  on  the  Bible.   A  knowledge  of the story is recommended.  The
adventue   is  controlled  with  the  mouse  and  uses  multiple  choice
questions.   At  the  top of the screen are the room descriptions and at
the bottom a choice of commands.  Nice, simple adventure.

APD219
Jigmania Data Disc 2
Jim Campey
 
Needs  LPD013  (Jigmania).  Len Tucker said that he hoped Jigmania users
would  prepare  some data discs for the PD and Jim Campey took him up on
it.   Well  done  Jim.  Puzzles on this disc are Computerview, Bungalow,
Castle and Tank for the adults and Count Duckula, Hotdogs, Robot, Bully,
Frog  and  audience  for  the  kids.  Well worth adding to your Jigmania
collection.

APD220
Jigmania Data Disc 3
Jim Campey
 
Needs LPD013 (Jigmania).  Another one from Jim Campey.  On this disc are
Dredd,  Thunderbirds, Garfield, Martian, Alien Legion and Bugs Bunny for
kids  and  Office,  Tournament,  Mansion,  Honda and Porsche for adults.
Another good disc for Jigmania users.

APD221
amos bingo
dave brown
 
Also  on  this disc is CRACK THE CODE by G.  Woodcock.  In order to play
AMOS  BINGO  you  first  need  to  print  out the tickets so access to a
printer  is  a  must.  You can then play BINGO in the old fashioned way.
The  numbers  are called by the computer in a robotic voice (sounds like
most  bingo callers to me) and you can play for a "line" or "house".  So
it's  eyes  down for the first number ....  and hold down the left mouse
button  to  make your call.  For those of you who find the normal game a
little  slow  there  is  a  faster version called MANIAC BINGO and it is
fast!   CRACK  THE CODE is a version of Mastermind with a Hi-Score table
and  full  instructions.   You start by having to guess two colours then
three  and  so on until you have to guess six.  I couldn't get past five
numbers.

APD230
Amos Asteroids
Mike Widdess
 
Contains  four  versions  of  the  old Asteroids game.  On version 1 all
graphics  are  computed  rather  than drawn by an artist.  Disc contains
full  documentation.   The  game  is  played  with  a  joystick  and the
objective  is  to  destroy  as  many  levels of rocks as possible and to
destroy  the  alien ship when it appears.  Treat yourself to a trip down
memory lane or show the kids what games used to be like.

APD231
amok
chris hunt
 
This  game  is shareware so please adhere to the programmer's request if
you  enjoy the program.  Your robot is trapped in a strange world whhich
is  unstable.   To  escape  the  robot must fit 150 micro-chips into his
teleporter.   The  chips  appear  randomly  along  with bombs and holes.
There's also a robotic ghost to avoid.  Also on the disc is Disc Manager
which  offers  the  facility to delete files, make a directory, rename a
file, delete directory, list directory, mouse on/off, music on/off.  Mad
which  is  a  flashing colourful screen with music, and spritebankviewer
which is self-explanatory.  All programs by the same programmer.

APD234
Teslar, Snake & Text
David Boucher
 
Teslar is a variant of Tetris with source code and documentation.  Snake
is  based  on  the  old  centipede type game and also has documentation.
Amos  Text is a text reader used to view the instructions for each game.
Icon  controlled  for  moving around the text and very easy to use, nice
program David.

APD237
Shapes
M. Archer
 
I  was  very  impressed  with  this  game  and  offered to put it in the
Licenseware  but  the  programmer  wanted  to  try an experiment and has
released it as "discware".  If you like it then you are supposed to send
the programmer a PD disc.  I hope you don't disappoint him as I think he
deserves some reward.  On booting you are given three options, F1:  Play
the  game,  F2:  High scores, F3:  Instructions.  The object of the game
is  to fill in the black area of the board using the shapes shown at the
bottom  of  the screen.  However, you only have a certain amount of each
shape  which is indicated by the value below the shapes.  You can add or
remove  shapes  but  there is a time limit.  If you complete a level you
are  given a password for the next one.  Beware this is a very addictive
game.  Highly recommended for lovers of puzzles.

APD243
Jigmania Disc 4
Len Tucker
 
Another  disc to use with Jigmania compiled by the original author.  All
puzzles  on  this  disc  are  for  the 99 piece option.  Puzzles include
Butterfly,  Lion,  Spaceman and others.  Nine new puzzles in all.  Needs
LPD013 to run (Jigmania).

APD252
War Simulator
Creative Software Applicati
 
Unfortunately  this game can not just be loaded and run you will need to
read  the  doc files on how to set it up.  Quite a complicated procedure
unless  you  are familiar with the Amiga.  You will find the docs in the
WARSIM  directory.   Also  on  the  disc is a slideshow advertising this
company's products.

APD254
hobbs games vol i
david hobbs
 
Docs  for  all the games are supplied.  Games all run from a menu.  Disc
contains CRAPMAN which is a version of PACMAN played using the joystick.
BATTLE  which  is  based  on  noughts and crosses with magic!  ADRIAN in
which  you  play  a  kid named...Adrian!  Your aim is to find the Golden
Chalice which is hidden somewhere in the checkboard desert.  To reach it
you  have  to  avoid many obstacles.  80+ is the final game in which you
play Mr.  Kwong protecting his retirement home with his Ninja Stick from
his  arch  enemy  The Black Zimmer-Frame.  Nice collection of simple fun
games.

APD259
chopper2
robin hall

Please  order  APD260  (disc 2) when ordering this.  A lot of effort has
gone  into  this program.  Initially you are given the option of turning
off  the  music and pilot selection.  You are given a choice of ten men.
You  will  be  given  full details on his character and background.  You
control  a chopper of course in this sideways scrolling game and have to
shoot the enemy.  I got sick of Colonel Grim telling me my attempts were
feeble  and  that  he  was  going to take over the world.  I wasn't good
enough  to stop him but you might be!  Pity the music isn't original but
the game is good fun.

APD268
yoghurt Boy

 
Yoghurt  Boy  and  Twit  Man  in the Quest for the Pink Banana is a text
adventure  in  which  you  control  movements by clicking on icons.  The
adventure isn't very complicated but quite funny in places.  Also on the
disc  is  a  nice vertical scrolling shoot-em-up with some good graphics
and smooth animation.

APD271
wizard's domain
andy paul
 
This is a well presented scrolling maze game.  Although the graphics are
small  the  game  is extremely playable.  The idea is to collect all the
tablets  in a maze to proceed to the next level all within a time limit.
This is a good, addictive, game.

APD277
Battle Pong
Thorsten Hansen
 
Very  well  presented  game  in  the  same  mould  as  Shufflepuck Cafe.
Basically  you  have  a paddle at one end of the table and your opponent
one  at the opposite end.  You then have to stop the ball going off your
end  of  the  table.   The  action  is  very fast and the game is really
addictive.   You  can either play against a second player or against the
computer.

APD292
war of four demo

 
This  is  a  demo version of a game that can be purcased from the author
for  a  sum  of  £3.50.   The  game is basically a war game between four
different races, Goblins, Dwarves, Elves and Humans.  The game screen is
split  into  two.  The top half is your current view and the bottom half
is  where all your icon controls are.  The game is very complex and lots
of playing would be needed to win or even complete it.

APD293
grand prix sim

 
The  aim  of  this game is to be at the top of the Championship Standing
after 10 Grand Prix races.  You start with a certain amount of money and
must  buy  a  pit crew, an engine for your car and a driver.  Spend your
money  carefully as you only have a limited supply.  Lots of options are
available  in  the game, there isn't much on the graphical front but the
game is absorbing.

APD299
fizzy pop games 1
fizzy pop
 
There  are  two  games on this disc.  Noughts and Crosses is a very nice
version  of...   well I think you can guess!  Super Brain is also a good
version of a classic, this time Mastermind.  Both games have really nice
bas relief graphics.

APD300
Co-ordination

 
KILL  DF1:  WITH 1/2mb.  This game is very annoying yet so addictive all
at  the  same  time!   Basically you have to use your paddle to bounce a
ball  out  of  the  exit on screen but once you start to hit the ball it
will not stop and you can then only hit the ball at angles!  Oh and just
to make things easier it musn't hit any of the walls or you lose a life.
To say this game is hard is an understatement.  Very simple idea makes a
really good game.  Recommended.

APD303
Litter Busters

 
This  is  a  Rockford  or Boulderdash style game.  The idea in this one,
however, is to collect the rubbish bags and go to the next level.  There
are  lots  of levels and if you get bored of them you can always use the
level editor to create some more.

APD313
Mariner's Mate
Daniel Smith
 
This is a Shareware game.  The idea of the game is to remove pegs from a
star  shaped  board  in  a similar fashion to Solitaire i.e.  by jumping
over  them.   The  game is by no means easy and if you want an even more
taxing version then use the time limit option as well.

APD314
black jack
peter cartwright
 
Black  Jack  Trainer has lots of options and is a nice implementation of
Black  Jack.   The main options include a help system and the ability to
load,  save and test various strategies.  If you like Black Jack or want
to  try  and  learn  how  to play it then get this disc.  The program is
COMPILED.

APD315
silver bars...
andreas andreou
 
Silver  Bars  And The Enemy.  Do you remember Hunchback on the Spectrum,
64  etc.  This is a brilliant version of that classic and very addictive
game.   Also  on  the disc is a demo of Locks, Keys And Enemies a future
addition  to  Deja-Vu  Proffesional  Software  collection,  which  is an
adanced version of the game on this disc.

APD318
boinng!
josh addison
 
Very  nice  game  in  which  you play a cute yellow, fluffy thing called
Herbert and you must save your village from destruction.  There are many
levels  to  complete  and  I must say they are very hard!  Basically you
have  to  run and jump over monsters and obstacles on your way.  Hard bt
addictive.  Recommended.

APD325
Hangman V2.0
Simon Walklate
 
The  two  programs  on  this  disc, Hangman and Hangman Editor, are both
Shareware.   Basically  this  is a spruced up version of hangman with an
editor  to  create  lists  of  words  to use in the program which can be
played by one or two people.  Full instructions are also included on the
disc.

APD326
hyperball

 
This  is  the  latest  version of WoodenBall.  The game involves scoring
goals  in  the  opposing  players  net.  You can play a game against the
computer  or  against  another  player.  There are also many options for
game  speed etc.  The gameplay is difficult to get used too but once you
have  the  hang of it it is quite an addictive game.  Some nice routines
used.

APD329
fruit machine
gary hunt
 
Very  well  presented  Fruit  Machine  game  with a large scrolling play
screen.   All  the usual options are included as well as some nice added
differences!   This  is  a  great fruit machine game that is recommended
fully!

APD332
Tetrix
T-2000 Software.
 
This  is  a  very  good  AMOS  version of the popular Tetris game.  Nice
display,  with  redefinable keys if you're not comfortable with the ones
set.

APD333
American Football
Composer Software
 
In  this game you are the manager of an American football team.  This is
the  radio  version,  ie it is displayed as if it is heard over a radio,
the  TV  version  will  follow  shortly  if  you send off your shareware
registration fee.  Looks good if you like American Football.

APD334
Snake in the grass
Peter Harris
 
This  is  a  centipede  type  game  where  you  have to gather the white
mushrooms  and  avoid  the  red  toadstools.   You mustn't bump into the
border  or  other  parts of yourself either!  Good graphics in this fast
action game.

APD340
Karate Worm
Mark Potter.
 
This  is a game that almost defies description.  Yes, it is possible for
a  worm  to do karate, but to see just how it's done, you'll have to buy
the  game!   It's  a  platform  game controlled with the joystick.  Plus
users please note:- Works from Cli just type 'ramos'.

APD342
Ludicrous
John O'Reilly.
 
Here  is  a program that you can use to create silly sentences, the kids
had  great  fun  with  it.   You  input names and situations and let the
computer  do  the rest, the results can be Ludicrous!  There is a speech
option,  which  slows  it down and also a silly mode which produces even
dafter sentences.

APD343
Save The Trees
Mark Potter.
 
A  game which has a message in its title.  We need trees!  Here you must
stop  the little men with axes from chopping down the trees.  You are in
a  bulldozer  and stop them by driving over them or shooting them.  It's
not  as  easy  as  it  first  appears as the axemen move faster than the
bulldozer.  Nice idea.

APD344
Fwuff
Dynatrax Software.
 
Here  is  a  simple,  but  very  addictive game.  It is based vaguely on
solitaire  where you eliminate pieces from the board by making one piece
jump over another into a free space.  In this game the pieces are fluffy
little  creatures,  the  ones you jump over are `saved and the object of
the  game  is  to  save as many Fwuffs as possible.  Shareware.  Lots of
fun.

APD350
Storyland II
David Alexander
 
This  is  a  shareware  game  with  a  difference, the author would like
donations  sent  to  the charity he has nominated in his Docs.  It is an
adventure for young children in which they journey to different lands to
help  the  inhabitants get rid of a wicked witch.  Has very good reviews
in the magazines.

APD362
Squat's Revenge
Mark Potter
 
This  is  a Two player blast'em to death game.  Plug in two joysticks to
play this game.  (no longer shareware!)

APD381
Demon's Edge
Mark Potter
 
This  game can be played by SIX players, each one of whom has his or her
personal  game  displayed  on the screen.  The aim is for each player to
find  the  exit  and go on to the following level.  This is a novel idea
which Mark says came from an old Electron title.  Worth trying.

APD382
Amos-Hangman
Mike Austin
 
This  version  of  hangman  has  versions  for children and adults.  The
children's   version   has  a  sequence  of  soldiers  marching  on  the
unfortunate  prisoner,  for  each  wrong guess another soldier brings on
part  of  the  gallows and the prisoner shows signs of great dispair, if
you  guess correctly, he jumps for joy!  I found this idea quite amusing
even  if  rather  macabre,  look  out for the final sequence.  The adult
version  has  different  animation  with various parts of the hanged man
being added for each incorrect answer.

APD383
Couples
G. Lund
 
This  is a 'Pairs' game where you have to match a card from the top half
of the screen with one from the bottom of the screen.  There is a choice
of  pictures  to  use, these include cars, patterns, smileys, and flags.
You  may  play  against  the  computer  in which case you can choose the
number  of  tries  allowed per game, or there is a 2 player option.  You
can  also  choose  between  18  or  32 pair to be matched.  All in all a
nicely done game.

APD384
Wots-Its-Name
Jim Campey
 
This  game  is  based  on  the  old 'twenty questions' quiz.  Up to four
players  can  take  part  and  there  are four catagories of questions -
Person,  Place, Thing and Year.  The aim is to get around the game board
by  guessing  words  from clues given.  You choose a clue by clicking on
one  of 20 numbered circles, you are then given a clue to a word or year
from the subject highlighted at the top of the screen.  You then have to
type  in  your guess, there is a timer to beat, but this is stopped when
you  start  typing.  Your score depends on how many clues you have used.
This  is  Jim's  first  full game I hope he will do more as this game is
well worth adding to your collection.

APD385
Games Disk
Various
 
Rattle  Snake  by  Ben Ashley.  This is a helicopter game with plenty of
action.   Space  Chaser by Paul Gaunt.  A novel idea for a pacman clone,
here  you  have  space ships going around the mazes.  Mazeman by Stephen
Eaborn.   A  classic pacman game, very nicely presented.  Source for all
three  games  is  included  for  you to look at.  A value for money disk
which will give hours of fun.

APD386
Demons Domain
Roger North (Sarog)
 
This  is  the  game  that  has kept the younger members of our household
glued  to  the  Amiga  for  hours  at  a  time!   Roger is the author of
Crossfire, which was also very popular (APD110) and his latest offering
is  just  as  addictive.   In  this game, your character moves through a
maze,  but  instead  of  meeting beasties, you are taken to one of seven
subgames  which you must complete before going further.  These games are
called  at  random,  they are very simply presented, but very effective.
They  range  from  a car race, dodge the arrows, guess the letter before
you  get  squashed  to  a  pulp,  centipede, minefield and a couple more
besides!  Get this one, it will get you hooked!

APD399
Pulsar
Ian Parkinson
 
This  is  a  two  player game which is played on a split-screen display.
Both  players  are  in  a  maze and the aim is to find your opponent and
eliminate  him  before  he does the same to you!  Of course you can only
see  you  own immediate area so tracking down the enemy isn't that easy.
You  are helped/hindered by transporter squares and one way doors.  Good
Fun.

APD401
Stax
Marc D. Bradshaw
 
Another  Tetris-type  clone where you have to match the patterned blocks
in groups of three.  Nice looking Shareware game.

APD402
Kinghigh
Graham Lund
 
This  is  a  card  game  which is joystick controlled.  Here you have to
guess   whether  the  next  card  will  be  higher  or  lower  than  its
predecessor.   Get  enough runs of five cards complete before going onto
the  next stage of the game where you have to get all the guesses wrong!
Completing  this  takes  you  onto  more  sections  of  the  game which,
unfortunately I haven't reached yet!  Very nicely presented game.

APD418
Gory Story
Philip Richmond
 
At last - an adventure!  This text adventure was written by Philip using
his  CREATIVE  ADVENTURE  TOOLKIT  (which  is  Deja  Vu Licenseware disk
L/033).   The  descriptions are very atmospheric and make you feel as if
you  are  wandering  around  the  forests  on the Welsh/English borders.
Highly recommended!  Updated May 1993

APD419
Bounder
Sarog 
 
This  is  the latest addition from Roger North.  This is a platform game
where  the  aim  is to bound upwards to reach an exit hole at the top of
the  screen.   Not as simple as it sounds!  Between you and the exit are
platforms, gaps appear randomly as the platforms move across the screen.
You have to jump ut through these gaps to reach the top exit.  There are
no  meanies  on  level  one,  so you can get the feel of the game before
progressing  onto the higher levels where you have to avoid these beasts
as well as trying to get to the top of the screen!  Recommended.

APD424
Card Games
David A. Lorner
 
This is a disk full of card games and puzzles which will keep you amused
for  hours  -  I know, I 'tested' it!  The games are various versions of
Patience - each one has full instructions and a rating of how likely you
are  to complete it.  You won't need as much patience to play these card
games  as  you  would  using  a  deck  of cards as they don't need to be
gathered up, shuffled and dealt out again between games!  The card games
are:-  STRATEGY  WINDMILL FOURTEEN OUT KING ALBERT PATIENCE CASTLE CLOCK
SNAP EIGHT OFF FLOWER GARDEN & SIR TOMMY.  The puzzles are:- SCORELINE -
a logic number puzzle, & TRAY which is a sliding tile game.  David first
sent  his  work into Totally Amos, and we have watched them develop into
this disk full of games.  Well recommended!

APD430
Paragon
Volber
 
This  disk  contains three programs, the main one being a well presented
puzzle  game.   The  playing  area  is  a  grid and the idea is to place
coloured  stones  onto this to copy the pattern given in a square on the
right  of the screen.  Easy?  Not so, you are not the only player trying
to  complete  patterns,  your oponent, which can be human or computer is
trying  to  do  the same thing as well as blocking your next move.  Good
game!   The  other programs are AbkPlayer, which is a (multi) music tool
and AmBOS V1.18 which is a Cli mask.

APD428
Nautilus
Marc Le Douarain
 
This  game has been sent to us from France and is the programmer's first
game.   It  is a maze game where you are in control of a submarine which
is  sailing  through  underwater mazes gathering ancient vases.  You are
able  to  shoot a path through the walls to gain access to cut off areas
of  the  maze, but your shots are limited.  Fish guard the treasure, and
colliding  with one will lose a life.  This is a shareware game which is
worth having in your game collection.

APD431
Karate Worm II
Mark Potter
 
I  still don't know how to describe a worm who uses Karate to defeat his
enemies!  (Remember KW I?) This new arcade chop'em up is better than the
first,  which  was  well  received  when  it appeared.  Here you have to
demonstrate  your  joystick skills to get around collecting treasure, it
isn't as easy as it seems.

APD432
Alliance II
Mark Potter
 
This  is  another  offering  from  Mark  Potter.   It  is a follow up to
Alliance  which  wqas released a while ago.  It is a strategy game which
plays well.

APD435
Driver
Dave Cherrington
 
This  is  a  game with a purpose other than shear amusement!  Dave wrote
this  program  to  show  how  the effects of drinking can influence your
judgement.  The program tests the time taken to react to different tests
and analyses the results.  These tests should be done before any alcohol
is  drunk,  and again after a drink or two.  If you manage to persuade a
few  friends to take the tests, and you send the results off to Dave, he
will  build up a database of the effects of drink on (would be) drivers.
A  very  interesting proggie, but I'm not encouraging the under 18's out
there  to  drink  just to do the test, although those over 18 might find
out some interesting things!

APD438
Match With Humpty
Paul Harthen
 
This  is  a  program  which  will  teach  young  kids  to match words to
pictures.   Humpty  sits on top of his wall watching to see how well you
do!  Nice graphicsin this well presented program.

APD439
The Classic Collection
Horbinder Singh Ghag
 
This is a collection of three classic games, all provided as source code
only, so you can see how they were done.  My favourite is monopoly which
is  very good and gives the feel of the real board game.  The good point
is  that  you can't cheat or get the money wrong!  Also on the disk is a
version  of  Connect  Four and a jigsaw puzzle game, both well done, but
for me, it's worth buying just for Monopoly!

APD443
Pictures (V2.0)
Graham Lund
 
This  is  a  very  addictive  puzzle game for two players, or one player
playing  two  games  at the same time, which is quite a challenge!  Each
player  has  two  boxes  on  the  screen.  The top one contains a hidden
picture,  the  lower  one  is  the  play area where you have to click on
squares  to reveal a tick or a cross.  Every tick you reveal gets you an
extra  turn, a cross means that it's your opponents turn.  To add to the
fun, there are bombs which clear your playfield so you will have to have
a  good memory to remember where those ticks were!  Great stuff from the
author of Couples and Kinghigh.  Updated May 1993

APD445
Weedie
Luke Miller
 
Weedie the miserable wizard, is really unhappy to see flowers growing in
his  garden,  they  are  making  the place far too pretty!  He takes his
nuclear  beans  and  sows them around the garden to destroy the flowers.
It's a novel game idea sort of anti ecological, but great fun and rather
addictive.  Get your joystick plugged in for this game!

APD448
Card & Other Games II
David A. Lorner
 
Also known to be 1200 compatible.  This is David's second disk of games,
I  find  these  different games of Patience ever so addictive!  They are
supplied  with  good  instructions  which  give  a  probability  rate of
success.  This time we also have a version of the Rubic's Clock puzzle.

APD455
Short Out
Dave Cherrington
 
Short out is a puzzle game that will keep you going for hours.  The idea
is  to  diffuse  a  bomb  by  connecting  your  defusing  machine to the
terminals  on  the bomb to make it safe.  Of course the right wires have
to  be connected or you will blow yourself up.  After each bomb is safe,
you are given a password which allows you onto the next level and a clue
which  you  should  remember to solve the final challenge.  This disk is
shareware, so if you like it, send Dave two pounds!

APD458
Top Of The League
Tony Kingsmill
 
This is a soccer management game, the first in the APDsection (there is
one  in  GPD).  Use your skills as a manager to get your team to the top
of the league.  Text and graphics are used in this program.

APD461
Frust & Devil's Dittany
Mark Potter
 
Two games for the price of one from Mark Potter who has given us so much
of  his  work  in the past.  His latest offerrings are FRUST, which is a
Thrust  type  game,  which  I  must  admit I can't get the hang of!  and
Devil's  Dittany  which  can  be  played  against the computer of better
against  another  human.   Each  player has his own screen to follow the
wizard's progress as he goes around collecting herbs to make spells.

APD462
Speedy Reedy & Football
Stephen Binder
 
Two  games  again  on this disk!  Speedy Reedy and His Crazy Capers is a
joystick  controlled  maze  game where the aim is to guide Speedy around
the  screen  collecting  sweets and avoiding the baddy at the same time.
It's  a  good  little game which I got quite addicted to even if I can't
get  past Level 1!  The trick seems to be to keep moving - don't stop to
breathe,  sneeze  or  gulp a mouthful of coffee!  Football is a game for
those  who  just  like pressing the mouse button.  You don't haver to do
anything  else!   The program takes you through a season of competitions
giving  you  the  results  of  each  round  with the list of the overall
winners  given at the end.  It does have some strange fascination factor
that keeps you pressing the mouse button until the end tho'!  It will be
usefull to those who wish to see just how the scores were generated etc.

APD471
Couples 2 & Nomis
Graham Lund
 
This  disk contains the latest version of Graham's Couples game which is
a  nicely  presented  Pairs game for two players.  Nomis is a Simon game
where  you  have  to  repeat  a  sequence  of colours by clicking on the
screen.  Both games are very well presented.

APD473
Amos Invader & Creepy Crawly
SM Sutton & F Dudley
 
A  value  disk  with two games for you.  Amos Invaders by SM Sutton is a
version  of  the old classic Space invaders which is very well done with
aliens  which  get  faster  and  faster  as the game progresses.  Creepy
Crawley is a novel game from Frank Dudley.  You control a spider who has
to  eat the flies it catches in its web.  Watch out in later levels, the
flies  fight  back!   Both of these programs are useful for beginners to
look  at, as usual, the code is on the disk for you to look at.  This is
the sort of program which can be played around with to see how it works.

APD475
Lateral Quizzes 3,4 &5
Dr John Foley
 
Parts 1 & 2 of this series of quizes can be found on GPD184 as they are
compiled.   This disk contains three lateral thinking quizzes for you to
wrap  your  brains  around.   They  are  Easy Amos written and show that
people  who  have bought Easy Amos are coming to grips with programming.
By  following  the  series  from  1 through to 5 you will see how John's
coding  has  improved  since  the quizes were started a couple of months
ago.  A warped sense of humour is needed to guess the answers to some of
the questions which are set out in a 'Catchphrase' style.

APD480
Slamball
M K Lysons
 
This is a futuristic type ballgame management game where there are loads
of  options  to  help  you  get your team to the top of the championship
table.

APD485
Style
Neil Wright
 
Style  is  a  pairs  matching game which is very Stylish with 3-D effect
tiles  for  you to select to make up the pairs.  You can also change the
number  of  tiles  in  the  game  to make it easier for younger players,
although  finding 2 matching sets out of 4 cards might be a bit too easy
for even the youngest player!  Nice version of an old favourite.

APD494
Demons Breach
Mark Potter
 
This  is  another  Mark  Potter game.  This time we have a platform game
where  you  have  to  grt  through  the levels by shooting spells at the
beasties.   You  play  the  role  of  a  wizard  and your spells gain in
strength as you progress through the game.

APD495
Arena 12
Paul Nordovics
 
This is a two player game where the idea is to seek out your opponent in
the  maze  and blast him before he blasts you!  An added feature is that
there  are  energy  pods to be collected in each level and your strength
and  weaponry  changes  according  to  the number of these that you have
collected.   Of  course,  these energy pods will also aid your enemy!  A
well presented game.

APD496
Yachting
Stephan Scholz
 
This  is  a  game written in AMOS 3-D.  It is the first game of its kind
that  I have seen anywhere.  You are sailing a yacht in a race around a
bay,  navigating  around marker buoys and trying to beat your opponents.
This  game  has atmosphere!  The display moves up and down just like the
real thing with all the appropriate creaks etc you'd expect to hear when
sailing.  Good fun.

APD541
Super Battle Zone
From Australia
 
This is a 3-D game.

APD542
Blackjack & Tutor
From Australia
 
This  disk  will teach you how to play Blackjack and the will give you a
game.

APD543
The Race

 
Previously known as AUS25.  This is a simple game where you have to make
2 characters race across the screen.

APD544
Duel And Underworld
From Australia
 
Previously known as AUS26.  Two games from Australia.

APD545
Invaders
From Australia
 
A game of Invaders.

APD574
Dojo Fight
From Australia
 
Take out your agression in this two player Karate game where you have to
kick the sense out ofyour opponent.

APD575
Lotto Magic
From Australia
 
This  program  is  based  on the Aussie national lottery and helps users
pick  a  series of numbers.  By inputting the results of past lotteries,
the program picks numbers that could come up.

APD576
Moonbase
From Australia
 
This is a trader/Sim type game set on the moon where the aim is to build
up a colony. Looks interesting, but I haven't had time to play it!

APD577
Dragnet
From Australia
 
This is a vertically scrolling Space Shoot'em up game where, like on
earth you can only die once!

APD578
Close Quarters
FromAustralia
 
This game needs two players. You can choose your weapons before setting
out to blow your enemy away.

APD579
Alphabet
From Australia
I didn't know quite where to put this one as it isn't really a game!  It
is an educational program which displays the letters of the alphabet one
at  a time with a suitable picture and description, also a message which
tells  the  child of possible dangers or more info.  eg Car - Do not get
into a stranger's car.

APD580
Deep Space
From Australia
 

APD581
Games
From Australia
 
This  disk contains two popular games.  The first is a version of Cleudo
called  Who Did It?  for 2 to 4 players.  The idea is to move around the
board  collecting the clues which come in 9 pieces each and fit together
on  a grid to make a complete pictureof Who Did It.  Wheel of Fortune is
like  the TV game, but you must bear in mind that the TV Programs in the
Answers are Australian.

APD582
Games
From Australia
 
The games on this disk are Arena and Crosswords.

APD596
Universal Racer
Mark Potter
 
This  is  a car racing game which gives you a choice of vehicles, choice
of  tracks  and the number of laps can be set from 1 to 5 for each race.
This  game  is  joystick  controlled  and  looks  good.   Source code is
included.  

APD603
Tables Test/Little Imps
G Wood
 
Here  we  have  2 educational programs both of which are based on maths.
Tables  Test  is  just  that, a program to aid the learning of the times
tables  while  the  Little  Imps  program  covers addition, subtraction,
multiplication  and division.  The idea for this one is that you have to
answer  enough  sums  correctly  to fill up the `think tanks'.  There is
also  a  reward game to play where you have to shoot down the paint pots
which the imps are carrying as they fly across the screen.

APD604
Jordan vs Shaq
Craig Warner
 
This is a basketball package which has 3 different programs.  One on One
is  a  two  player basketball game, Slam Dunk Contest is a shoot out for
points choosing from 8 different trick moves to allow your player to get
the  ball  in  the  basket.   Three  point shoot out is a game where two
players take turns to shoot at goal to see how many points can be scored
in a set time.

This is a source only version of the game which originally came to us on
4 disks.  The graphics are not the best, but the game works well.

APD605
Duel Sword Doods
Lee Bamber
 
After  a  year,  we've  got  this game on the library!  Due to disks not
working  and  getting  lost  in the post, it's now here for you to play.
It's  a  chop'em  up  game  for two players who control 2 sword wielding
fighters.   The idea is to cut up your opponent or drive him against the
nasty  spikes  which  stop him retreating down the exit tunnel.  I think
they  come  from  Mars  as  they  bleed green blood!  Recommended by our
junior in-house testers.

APD610
Knightwoode
Tony Kingsmill
 
This is a rarity in the library as we do not get many adventures sent
in. 

Tony has sent in this demo version which allows you to play the first
3 parts of the game - to get the rest you will have to contact him!
I have tried it out and it looks interesting. It's mainly text,but has
some illustrations if you wish. 

The adventure lets you explore many locations through a town, woods,
sewers castle and more and the code provided is well commented to let
you see how it was constructed.

APD614
Blockit
Graham Lund
 
This  game  is a variation on the old bat and ball game.  The difference
here  is  that instead of knocking a ball back to your opponent, the aim
is  to  stop  the balls hitting the boundery on your side of the screen.
The  balls  appear  several  at  a  time  and  move across the screen at
differing  speeds  so that you have to dash from one end to the other to
hit  them.  If you miss, you lose a life, if you hit lots, you get extra
lives.   There  are very many different options you can use to make each
game  different.  These include speed and different game screen choices,
e.g.  vertical game with balls coming from top and/or bottom, horizontal
game etc.  An interesting game from Graham who has several others in the
library.  

APD619
Games Disk
Michele Berionne
 
This is a disk of four source only games sent in my Michele from Italy.
Atoms is the best game, it is a logic game to be played by 2-4 players.
The idea is to place atoms on a grid, when the limit for that square is
reached, the atom explodes into the adjacent ones often causing chain
reactions which wipe out other players' atoms - the winner is the person
who has atoms left when everyone else has been blown away.
Tetris - a new version of the old favourite.
Fantasy - blast the beasties with your mouse!
Super - Arcade game

APD622
Amos Pro Games Disk
Various
 
This disk contains the source code for 3 games written with Amos Pro and
will  NOT run in Amos Classic.  Mazes is by Robin Cook and is a game set
on  5  levels of difficulty and is a game for one player set in 4 mazes,
all of which are displayed on the screen at the same time.  Level one is
a trainer level, but on the higher ones you can be killed by an enemy or
bomb  in  any  of  the mazes, not just the one in which you are playing!
The  best  description  I  can  think  of for this game is 4-way Pacman!
Shooter  is  a space invader type game but here you only have one target
to  shoot  at.  There are 9 levels of skill and you get a limited number
of  shots.  Power Pong by Harvey Ball is a nice variation of the old bat
and ball game for two players where each player has a bat on one side of
the screen and the aim is to hit the ball into the goal of your opponent
at  the  opposite  side  of the screen.  There is a choice of 5 sporting
themes to play to add variety to the game.

APD623
Black Belt Tournament
D Slater & M Pickett
 
This  is  a  karate  tournament  game  where  you  can take out all your
frustrations  by  kicking your opponent without getting hurt.  Not a bad
game  from  Mr  Slater  and Mr Pickett, but as I do not really like this
sort  of  game (joysticks and me don't get on!) I couldn't get to see it
all the way through.

APD629
It's the Cars..
Mark Potter
 
The full title of this game is `It's the cars that ate the world'. A bit
of a strange title, but the idea seems to be that you drive your mutant
car around the game map running over the nasties who, from what I've
seen are people.
I'm no great joystick users, so I couldn't get very far, but it's an
interesting idea and as the code is on the disk, it could show other car
game writers how it's done!



          ================== SOUND SAMPLES ==================

APD010
Samples 2

 
 Alert1,  Alien1,  Beamer,  Beep,  Carstart,  Charge, Coilgun, CrashdIV,
Dive,  Echogun1,  Echogun2,  Echogun3, Eeee, Eeiong, Explode1, Explode2,
Explode3,  Explode4,  Explode5, Explode6, Fountain, Horn, Hum, Laughsic,
M32shoot,  Motor1,  Motor2,  Motor3,  Motor4,  Passage, Phaser, Pinball,
Quack2,  Repeater,  Revup1,  Revup2,  Shipguns,  Shoot, Slide, Stargun1,
Stargun2, Stunner, Train, Whinegun, Woo.

APD011
Samples 3

 
 Bats1,  Breath1,  Cats, Door1, Door2, Door3, Door4, Gorilla1, Gorilla2,
Heart1,  Heart2,  Hellhnd1, Laugh, Laugh2, Monster1, Phantom1, Phantom2,
Prtculis, Scream1, Scream2, Scream3, Scream4, Scream5, Scream6, Stangle,
Wolf1, Wolf2, Wolf3.
 
APD012
Samples 4

 
 Arrows,  Bells1,  Bells2,  Bells3,  Dagger, Drips1, Firesqwd, Firestke,
Hotpoker,  Jungle1,  Jungle2,  Necktwst, Owl1, Owl2, Pendulum, Physlab1,
Rain1,   Saw_leg,  Saw_leg2,  Tanktrax,  Thunder1,  Thunder2,  Thunder3,
Thunder4, Updown.

APD013
Samples 5

 
 Alarm,  Alarm2,  Astral,  Cascade,  Compute1,  Count,  Docking,  Drwho,
Landing,  Laseban2,  Lasebang,  Laser,  Laser2,  Laser3, Laser4, Laser5,
Takeoff, Tinkle, Warble, Warp.

APD017
Instruments St-01

 
Approximately 90 instruments
A-Bass,   Aaah,   AckerBell,   Annoying,  Bass1,  Bass2,  Bass3,  Bass4,
BassDrum1,  BassDrum2,  Bells,  Brass,  Bright,  Church,  D1, Drumsharp,
Elecbass,  Fineone027,  Fineone037,  Fineone047,  Fineone057,  FunSound,
Guitar4,  HighOp,  HiHat1,  HiHat2,  Kimbassdrum,  Led04,  Led09, Led0a,
LedGuitar01,  LedHeavy01,  LedSnare,  Marimba,  Name, Perc, Perc-DryTom,
Perc-Timpani,   Percussion1,   Percussion2,   PLST,   Rasors,  Revbdrum,
Ridecymbal3, RSnareDrum, Scary, Shaker, Snare25, SnareDrum1, SnareDrum2,
Sony05-07,  Sony06-07,  Sonydrum01,  Sonydrum02, Sonydrum03, Sonydrum05,
Sonydrum07,   Sorry,  SpaceTalk,  Storm01,  Strat,  Strings1,  Strings2,
Strings22Min,   Strings3,   Strings4,   Strings5,   Strings7,   Strplus,
Suprabass1,   Synthtom,   Tadaa,   Take,  THGuitar,  TomDrum,  tromajor,
Trominor,  Trstclap,  Ultrastring, Who, wind, Yodel, Zzzax001, Zzzax002,
Zzzax003, Zzzax004, Zzzax005, Zzzax06

APD018
instruments st-02

 
Approximately 70 instruments
bass6,  bassdrum5,  g21,  lowsynth,  mad,  noise1,  sae,  shaker, sirin,
snare6,  synth1,  voice1,  zing,  19hat, ahhvox, arztbass, badyyoungbbd,
bass1,   bass3,   bassdrum3,  bassdrum5,  blip,  blood,  bongo,  bsnare,
chornos6,   chronos4,  chronos5,  church,  clap-e,  cymbal,  deep_voice,
digdug, dreamings, drop2, drum1, drum2, erclhh, erophh, finale, floette,
goodpling,  guitar7,  hapsi,  harrier2,  horn,  ibanez,  kitax,  laser1,
longslap,  lotmore, luftstring, moog2, osterbass1, ostertrumpet1, oyyou,
panflute2,  perc-timbale,  pling,  PLST,  question,  scratch, sharpbass,
sinecz,   snare7,  snare9,  sonar,  spiffclap2,  think1,  think2,  till,
tinclap, twee1, typewriter, xfarley, yeah, zapp

APD055
Samples 6

 
 lamebrain,  laugh1,  laugh2, laugh3, laugh4, openeerie!  right, right2,
ring,   These_sounds,  thisis,  Thunder,  tied-up,  time.out.yo,  train,
trainhorn, transport, twang, warning2, Wee, Welcome, welcome2, whatboat,
whatwegd, WHINNY1, WHINNY2, WHINNY3, whistl1, whistl2, whistl3, whistl4,
Whoa_black_betty,  whoithell,  wind,  woman-aahh, woorgh, yaunt, yaunt2,
yeah, yodelsound, Y_can't_play_this.

APD056
Samples 7

 
 Move,  network23,  notimportant, orchblast, ouch1, Owwwh, pepper, PIG1,
PIGGROWL,  PIGS-AHA,  PIGS-DISTORT,  plane,  pumpupvolume, readytoattak,
righton,  robotvoice,  running,  salt,  savagedeath,  Seagull, seascape,
sexycomputer,  smash,  Smile, Sneeze, somebodyscream, sonar, spacedoors,
Sploit-drip,  spring,  spring1, springhigh, Stand_by, staticbuzz, stove,
sturm2,   SW-allclear,   SW-greattrykid,   SW-redfive,   SW-sizeofthing,
SW-usetheforce,     swoosh,     swordCLANG,    SwordSWIPE,    Telephone,
Thats_all_Folks, thesavage.

APD057
Samples 8

 
 aaaah, aahhhhhh, ac.train3, ALARM1, ALARM2, ALARM3, ALARM4, alert, alf,
AMOSspeech,  Audience,  Ay_Yeah,  bass,  bells, Bikecrash, blood, blubb,
blubb2,  bodyblow,  boing1,  BOING2,  BOING3,  bullet, bullet3, bullet4,
burp,  bwang,  Can't_t_This, carhorn, carstart, cartoon-coyote, CatMeow,
cheep,  Clapping, clapping2, click, collect1, collect2, comeon, cook.it,
Cough,  crash,  CrashBackward,  Creak,  crrunch, deepvoice1, deepvoice2,
Doom, Doom2, Doom3, drip.

APD058
Samples 9

 
 drip1,  drip2,  drip3,  drip4, dum-b-dum, dynamic, eristein, explosion,
explosion1,     explosion2,    explosion2,    explosion3,    explosion5,
FootstepECHO,  Freak_out,  FX.SPOTON,  gameover,  getvideo,  go, goback,
Good_morning,  gunshot1,  haaa,  Hello,  Here_the_drummer, hey, hey.rad,
hey2,  heyhey,  Hip-Hip,  Hit_it,  hoo,  Huh!  Jam_hot, jetsound, knock,
Laser,  Laser2,  Laugh, Laugh1, laugh2, laugh3, lazer1, lazer2, lets_go,
Lets_go!  liveanddirect, loser, machine_gun, madlord, maxx, misc1.

APD079
Instruments St-03

 
Approximately 70 instruments.
440-gatedsnare,  440gated-snare,  440thick, acidflickbass, akaiclosedhh,
arztbass,  bassdrum7,  bassdrum8,  battledrum,  bodbozdrum, bodbozhouse,
bodbozhouse2,  bodbozjourney,  bodbozpumper,  bodboztime,  breath, chor,
chuckie-bar,  church,  clap3,  cleanbass, combistrings, distdemp, drop2,
e-chord1,  e-chord2,  em-bass3,  em-bass4,  epmdhi,  eradrum,  erasnare,
escape2,  explosion,  futurestring,  gbass,  guitar3,  guitar4, guitar7,
hoah,  jmj4,  laserdrum,  lead12,  lead8,  lobster,  metalchord,  moog9,
NightAOn1,   NightAOn2,   parbassdrum,   patbassdrum,  PLST,  polysynth,
portamento1, powerbassdrum1, prowater1, rraid4, sax2, saxophone, sinecz,
snapstring,  snare13, Snare17, snaredrum9, sologuit2, sonar, spacesnare,
spliffclap2,  strings8,  synth5, synth8, tomdrum, typewriter, wh1, wh10,
wowtrumpet, xstrings, zap

APD080
instruments st-04

 
Approximately 100 instruments.
Aligator,  AnalogString,  Asia, BassDrum1, BassDrum2, BassDrum3, BigBow,
Blast,  Blubzing,  Celeste,  Chink,  Claps1, Claps2, Claves, CloseHiHat,
Conga,  CowBell,  Dangerous,  Detune,  Die,  DigDug,  DigiHarp, Dogbark,
DreamBells,  DXBass, DxTom, ElecTom, EPiano, Eug, FaeryTale, FilterBass,
FunBass,   FunkBass,  HallBrass,  Heaven,  HeavySynth,  Heifer,  HiHat1,
HiHat2,   Hooman,  Horns,  JahrMarkt1,  JahrMarkt2,  Jetes,  Klickorgan,
KorgBass,  KorgBeau,  KorgBow,  KorgDoi,  KorgFilter,  KorgString, Koto,
Leader,   Licks,   Magic,  Marimba,  MetalKeys,  MonoBass,  MonsterBass,
MuteClav,  Nice,  NoteMan, Organ, Outlaw, Perco, PingBells, Pizza, PLST,
PolySynth,   PopBass,   PopSnare1,   PopSnare2,  RichString,  RingPiano,
RoomBrass,  Shaker,  Shamus,  SineCZ,  SixTease, Smash1, Smash2, Snare1,
Snare2,  Snare3, SoftBass, Sphere, Squares, Steinway, Strange, strings1,
strings2, strings3, strings4, strings5, strings6, strings7, Sulu, Sweep,
SynBrass, SynClaves, SyntheBass, SynthPiano, TechBass, TheEgg, TineWave,
Touch, TuneBass, Voices, Wabberstring, WoodBlock, WowBass

APD156
rippers disc
gary shilvock
 
This  disc  contains a vast amount of rippers for you to get at all that
elusive Soundtracker music in demos etc.

APD162
Samples 10
Brian Iredale (canada)
 
A  sound  sample  disc sent in from Canada. 
 Applause,  AutoFire, Bells, Boing, Bowling, Creaking, Drill, Explosion,
FogHorn,  FootSteps,  Gallop,  Glass,  Gunship, HandGun, Horn, Ignition,
Klaxon,  Lasers,  Laughter,  more, Pony, Ricochet, Scotty, Siren, Sound,
Sound.doc,Thriller, Thunder, Twilite.

APD165
Samples 11
Brian Iredale
 
Another sample disc by Brian Iredale from Canada.
 Accelerate,      Alarm,      Arrow_Begin,     Arrow_End,     Audio.doc,
Basketball_Bounce,  Beep,  Beep_Vibes_1, Beep_Vibes_2, Birds, Bomb_Beep,
Bond_Intro,   Church_Bell,  Cough,  Door_Close,  Drum_Final,  Drum_Rift,
Drum_Roll,   Explosion,   Guitar_Rift,  Gun_&_Glass,  Hand_Claps,  Jaws,
Jaws_2,  Meow,  Paint_Guns,  Pink_Panther,  Rapid_Fire,  Sneeze,  Sound,
Sound.doc,   Spear_Gun_1,   Spear_Gun_2,   Spear_Gun_3,   Strange_Siren,
Thunder_Roar, Ticking, Waves, Whoopie, Windshield_Break, Yell.

APD222
Steve's Samples 1
Steve Bennett
 
About  40  different  samples for use in your AMOS programs.  Sounds are
Ah,  am  i  evil,  bailchord,  basics,  bass10, BassI, Bubble, Car skid,
computer_alarm, cowboy_gun1, cowboy_gun2, damp, death_gong, Double Bass,
dxbase,   Echodrum,   EffectI,  EffectII,  Electric  Guitar2,  Elephant,
Explosion,  gitty,  Gong,  Human, HumanII, Jungle, kef-bass, Little ben,
Machine-Gun, No, Piano2, pops, powerbassdrum, Scream, Slap bass, Snare1,
Sphere, Tiger, TomI, Tropical birds, wierd

APD223
Steve's Samples 2
Steve Bennett
 
samples   on  this  disc  are  bettergetback,  bigexplosion,  birdsong,
crickets_chirping,  death_gong,  duck_talk,  fire,  gameover,  getready,
goodshooting,   gunshoot,   heartbeat,   laugh,   letsrock,  mans_cough,
monster_roar,  music1sam,  music2,  newend,  ooooh_errr, orac_switch_on,
pop3,  pops1,  smartbomb1,  space_alarm, space_alarm2, standbyforaction,
tank_shooting,     vibro_buildup,    vin_price_laugh,    visitwithpeace,
watchyourfire, youll_never_escape

APD224
Steve's Samples 3
Steve Bennett
 
Samples   on   this   disc   include  alienexplosion1,  ambulance_siren,
bettergetback, bigexplosion, cardiograph, churchbells, cock_a_doodle_do,
cricket,  donkey, double_cannon_shot, earthstoodstill, fire_engine_horn,
fog_horn, hammer_thud, it_came_intro, laser_fade, lightning, morse_code,
music3,  oh_no,  ouch,  police_car_siren, race_car_engine, refs_whistle,
seagull,     ships_horn,     single_shot_laser,     sky_rocket,    tank,
tom_tom_and_people,     trimphone,     tyre_screech,    weeuw,    wheee,
window_breaking, wip, yip, youll_never_escape

APD225
Steve's Samples 4
Steve Bennett
 
Samples   on   this   disc   are   aaaaahhhhh1,   aaaaahhhhh2,  aaaahhh,
another_laser,      automatic_fire,     ball_bounce,     biplane_diving,
biplane_engine,     breakout_ball_wall,    bubberling,    cards_shuffle,
car_skid1,    car_starter_and_revs,   car_starter_motor,   car_tickover,
dog_bark,  end_of_level,  galactica_laser,  get_ready, glass_breaking_1,
glass_breaking_2,  gunshot,  heartbeat,  heavy_ball_bounce,  helicopter,
helicopter1,  helicopter2,  hello_driver, horse_trotting, horse_whinney,
laser3,   laser4,   laser_cannon,   machinegun,   marching,   metal_bar,
motorboat,  music1,  music2, revolver_single_shot, rifleshot_richchet_1,
rifleshot_richchet_2,      rifleshot_richchet_,     rifleshot_with_echo,
single_shot

APD226
Steve's Samples 5
Steve Bennett
 
Samples  on  this  disc are 20's_style_jingle, anti_aircraft_gun, arrow,
ball_bounce,   bird_chirp,   boing,   BOYEE,   bump,   burp,   car_horn,
car_horn_honk,    car_rev_drive_off,   car_skid_crash,   cavalry_charge,
crowd_roar_1,  door_slam,  drum_roll, flash, frog_jump, FUNKY DRUMMER 1,
hammer_ring,   heart_beat,   iluvyou,  lightning,  loads_of_cowboy_fire,
mass_effects_1,   ping-noing,   pop,   rain,  sky_rocket1,  sky_rocket2,
space_warp,  starwars_laser, steamboat_hoot, sword_clang1, sword_clang2,
thunder, wee-donk, wind, zylaphonejingle.

APD337
Music For Madness
Dizzy Edge
 
A music player with lots of music for you to listen to.

APD546
Sample Workshop
From Australia
 
A Program which will allow you to listen to and work on sound samples.

APD547
Aussie Samples #1

 
Previously known as AUS19.  Disk of Sound sams for your programs.
 ALARM1,  ALARM4,  alert,  Bikecrash,  blubb2,  boing1,  BOING2, BOING3,
bullet,  bullet3,  bullet4  bwang,  carhorn,  carstart,  CatMeow, cheep,
Clapping, clapping2, Cough, crash, CrashBackward, Creak, crrunch, drip1,
drip2, drip3, drip4, explosion, explosion2, explosion3, explosion5, hey,
jetsound,  knock,  Laser,  Laser2, machine_gun, nothing, PIG1, PIGGROWL,
PIGS-AHA,  PIGS-DISTORT, plane, Seagull, seascape, smash, Sneeze, sonar,
spacedoors, Sploit-drip, spring, springhigh, staticbuzz, sturm2, swoosh,
Telephone,  Thunder, train, trainhorn, twang, WHINNY1, WHINNY2, WHINNY3,
whistl1, whistl2, whistl3, whistl4, wind.

APD548
Aussie Samples #2

 
Previously AUS20.  More sound samples.
cartoon-coyote,   alf,   Audience,   bass,   blood,   bodyblow,  comeon,
deepvoice1,   deepvoice2,   dum-b-dum,   dynamic,   eristein,  gameover,
getvideo,  go,  haaa,  hey2,  heyhey,  Hip-Hip,  Laugh,  Laugh1, laugh2,
laugh3,   Leader,   liveanddirect,   loser,  madlord,  maxx,  network23,
notimportant   ouch1,  Owwwh,  pumpupvolume,  readytoattak,  robotvoice,
running, savagedeath, sexycomputer, somebodyscream, thesavage, the_duel,
thisis,  tied-up, warning2, Wee, welcome, whoithell, woman-aahh, woorgh,
YaskMe, yeah, yodelsound.

APD549
Aussie Samples #3

 
More sound samples.
a  hero,  another  sword  clang, argh, arghalopa, bang argh, bark, bell,
boing,  boingggg,  bong,  bounce,  bubling  lava,  burning fire, captain
caveman!  car skid, clink, clunk, crowd, dead or alive, dont beleive me,
door  opening, dumdumdumdum, enemy, enter name, get ready for a suprise,
girl  screaming,  gogogo,  good  evening  australia,  good night, growl,
hahaha,  haheha,  halt stranger, heroine, hiargh, howl, im derryn hinch,
in  hall  fame,  jump,  laser,  lion1,  nasty  laugh,  no lapking, plane
landing, police siren, present, psew, rattings, robocop, rolling barrel,
select,  shame,  shoot&reload,  sludge, somthing dropped, splat, splish,
sword   block,  television,  thats  life,  the  demo,  thumping  ground,
tightening rope, uh oh, welcome to mars, who am i?  yeah1, yougotit.

APD550
Aussie Samples #4

 
More assorted sams and instruments from Australia.
Instruments:
 in,  in2, Bass+Voice1, Bass1, Bass2, Bass3, Bassdrum1, Drums1, Guitar1,
Orchest1,   Snaredrum1,  Strings1,  Strings2,  Synth1,  Synth2,  Synth3,
Synth4, Synth5, Synth6, Trumpets1, Weird.

Sams
 Ahhh!!    Airplane,   Aliens1,   Bell,   Boing,   CarCrash,  Carengine,
CarIgnition,  CarIgnition2,  Carskid,  Cat,  Cough, DrumFinal, DrumRoll,
Explosion1,  Food,  Funny1,  Gethim,  GO!   Hurt1,  Hurt2,  Hurt3,  Jet,
MachineGun,  MachineGun2,  MonsterMoan, Oooo!  Plopp, Redalert, Rocket1,
Shoot1,   Shoot2,   Sneeze,   Something   Thrown,  Space  Ship  Engine1,
SPORTSCARengine,  SquashedV8engine, Weird1, Weird2, Weird3, Womanscream,
Yeah1.

             =========== AMOS SOURCE PROGS ================

APD021
Word Square Solver

 
Word  Squares  made  easier with this program.  Just type in the letters
and  let  the  computer  find  the  words for you.  Also on the disc are
various  games  including  the  following  -  Demolition  Mission,  Grub
Grabber, Space Invaders, Pacman and Submarine.

APD032
Amos Programs 1
Gary Fearn And Nadeem
 
Contains  CLI.AMOS, Myfirstdemo.AMOS, Spritestars.AMOS and Textview.AMOS
all by Gary Fearn.  This disc also contains Nadeemscroller.AMOS which is
a demo by Nadeem.  Lots of source code for you to play about with and to
learn from.

APD054
Amos Programs 2
Gary Shilvock And Jason Ant
 
This disc contains a compilation of utilities, routines and demos.  More
source code for you to examine and adapt.
 Jason   Anthony
 UTILS  -  Dbase.AMOS,  dutil.AMOS, File_Contents.AMOS, graphics02.AMOS,
Mail.amos, Rot2.AMOS, spell.AMOS, Texed.AMOS.
    
 Gary_Shilvock   
 DEMOS    Boris    II.AMOS,   Boris.AMOS,   Weaveworld   Rtn(512k).AMOS,
Weaveworld.AMOS.

 ROUTINES -  2D Vectors.AMOS, 3D Vectors.AMOS, Backwards.AMOS, Large
Scroll.AMOS, scroll1.AMOS, scrolling landscape.AMOS, set rain.AMOS, Sine
Scroll.AMOS.

 UTILS    -   pseudo-dos.AMOS,   Sine_Program.AMOS,   Sketch   pad.AMOS,
Sprite_Viewer.AMOS.

APD064
Amos Programs 3
Gareth Lancaster And John L
 
Contains  four  programs  from  Gareth  Lancaster  (author  of  BOMBASE)
accessed  by  booting  into  a menu.  The programs are MOIRE, SCROLLIST,
PIXELIZER and LIFE.  Also on the disc are an art program by John Leaver,
chart.amos and customer.amos.

APD065
Amos Programs 4
Chris Kimpton
 
Word  Search  and  Anagrams.   The disc boots up and offers a selection,
returns to the menu later.

APD077
Amos Programs 5
Martyn Brown
 
The  main  program  on  this  disc  is Rainbow Warrior but the disc also
contains  demos  and  other routines such as selectors and various music
players  that  have  been  used on the PD disks.  Interesting mixture of
programs, and very useful for learners.

APD107
Amos Programs 6
Dominic Ramsey
 
Lots  of  source code from the programmer of Reversi.  The disc includes
the beginning of a text adventure.
  Adventure.Amos
  Demo.Amos
  LeagueSim.Amos
  Vectors.Amos
  WibbleLogo.Amos
  WibblePhoto.Amos

APD133
Mandelbrot Generator
Gary Shilvock
 
1/2  megabyte  and  1  megabyte catered for on this disc.  Also contains
examples and some fascinating pictures.

APD140
Amos Programs 7
Arc Angel, P. Applegarth, R
 
Contains  four  AMOS  programs.  DOT-MATRIX.AMOS by Arc Angel - remember
the  pen  and  pencil  game  where  you have to join up the dots to make
squares?   No?   Well  you  won't  know  what  this  game  is like then!
FAST_FOOD.AMOS  by  P.  Applegarth - you control a flying mouth with the
joystick  but beware if you eat too much of the food that rushes by then
you  burp  and  it's  game over!  LINE.AMOS by Robosoft for two players.
SPINVADERS.AMOS  by B.  J.  Hills - a variation on the old classic Space
Invaders, good graphics and nice music.  All need AMOS to run.

APD150
Amos Programs 8
Too Many Names To Mention!
 
Contains  25  assorted  programs.   4096COLOURS.AMOS,  52 CARDS.AMOS, 64
COLOURS.AMOS,  BRIAN'S  THEME  I,  II  &  III.AMOS,  ICON  UTILITY.AMOS,
KUOPPATIPUTUS.AMOS, MVDESIGNDEMO.AMOS, PATTERNS.AMOS, PIKKUALUKSET.AMOS,
RADAR.AMOS,  RAMOS  1_2 INSTALL.AMOS, RANDOM NUMBERS.AMOS, SCREENS.AMOS,
SCROLLINGMAPDEFINER.AMOS,        SPRITEMAKER.AMOS,       TVKKIPELI.AMOS,
VERTSTARS.AMOS,     VERTTEXT.AMOS,     VALIAIKAINEN.AMOS,    WARP!.AMOS,
WIREMANIAX.AMOS and XEVIUOS2.AMOS.  Needless to say you need AMOS to run
this disc.  Thanks to everyone who contributed.!  

APD151
Bobalizer
Steve Bennett And Mark Venn
 
Understanding  AMOS  is  a  tutorial on using the screen commands within
AMOS.  A very good program for beginners.  BOBALIZER is a music player.

APD152
Amos Programs 9

 
A  disc with a Christmas theme.  Contains Midnight Magic Christmas Demo,
Christmas.AMOS, Slideshow of Count Duckula and OXO.AMOS.  Needs AMOS.

APD154
Amos Programs 10
 
 
Contains     Animator_Update_v3.AMOS,     Autoback.AMOS,    Engine.AMOS,
Noprogram.AMOS,    Patterns.AMOS,    Pause_Click.AMOS,    Pic_Show.AMOS,
Windemo.AMOS.  Some good routines.

APD159
Slideshow
Gary Shilvock
 
Source code so requires AMOS.  Slideshow of Fantasy pictures.

APD191
Amos Programs 11
Jason Banks
 
Contains  routines  sent  in  by  Jason  Banks.   Includes  a Bards Tale
Character  convertor,  two  player  trail  game, a sliding tile game and
other utility programs.
 PROCEDURES - Emblem.AMOS, Landscape.AMOS, Percent.AMOS, Phase.AMOS,
Snow.AMOS, bards_tale_1.amos, bibble.amos, bibble_2.amos, BOB_TEXT.AMOS,
dalex.amos, file_procs.amos, file_view.amos, how_many_bobs.amos,
how_many_bobs2.amos, how_many_bobs3.amos, led_procs.amos,
NoiseMaker.AMOS, phone_book.amos, Screen_wipes.AMOS, Scroll_Demo.AMOS,
skeet_shooting.amos, squares.amos, Superfruit.AMOS, Tron.AMOS,
word_counter.amos.

APD192
Amos Programs 12
Gary Shilvock
 
Yet  another  disc  containing  routines  by  Gary  Shilvock.  This disk
includes a scrolling demo.  Needs AMOS.
  MISC  -  Banish-Flicker.asc,  BreakDown  RGB.AMOS,  build_rainbow.asc,
colours.asc,  Fast  Ram  Check.Asc, Get Font.asc, rain2.asc, select.asc,
software failure.asc, Strip Name.asc, suck_up_gfx.asc, Toggle Led.Asc
  
  SCROLLS -  bob_scroll.Asc, Colour scroll.Asc, colour scroll2.asc, Rainbow
Scroll.Asc, Scroll.asc, UpScroll.asc, Vertical Scroll.asc.

  FILES -   File Length.ASC, File Selector.Asc, Load&Save File.asc.

  MUSIC -  equalizer rtn.asc, Play Raw Sample.Asc

 FULL DEMOS - Demo1, Demo2, Demo3

  2dstars.AMOS, Menu.AMOS, Scroller.AMOS,

APD197
Amos Programs 13
Dominic Ramsey
 
Includes   FractalLeaf.AMOS,  3DForGlasses.AMOS,  EdgeDetection.AMOS  (a
program  to  convert a non-HAM IFF image into a two colour line drawing)
and  DeFusion.AMOS which is a small game with full instructions in which
you have to defuse bombs, similar to MASTERMIND.  Also on this disc is a
Wordsearch Puzzle Maker.

APD199
Amos Programs 14
Chris Labrum & J. Hale
 
This  disc contains PONTOON by Chris Labrum which is a bootable program.
A  very  good  version  of  the  popular  card game which sticks (no pun
intended!)  closely  to  the  normal  rules  of the game.  The disc also
contains some AMOS programs that need AMOS to run.  These include BITMAP
FINDER, CAVL and LIGHTCYCLES by J.  Hale.

APD200
Dungeon Shell
Allen Webb
 
I am a self confessed DUNGEON MASTER fanatic, having played the game way
back  in  1988 on a ...  dare I say it ...  Atari St!!!  So, if you have
also  shared  in the delights of the game you have doubtless wondered if
you  could  produce a game as good!  Well with this disc you are part of
the way there.  The programs are all fully documented and basically give
you  the  bare  bones on which to base your game.  So hurry up and write
one  and  put  people like me out of their misery and give us another DM
game to get to grips with.  Well done Allen.

APD218
Amos Programs 15
Various
 
Disc contains the following programs.  3 excellent bob routines by Steve
Bennett for you to use in your own demos, very effective.  MegaBase v2.2
by  Ben  Ashley.   Skeet and Target Shooting by Steve Bennett.  A simple
game  written  with learner programmers in mind to help you master AMOS.
The program is unfinished so you can add whatever you want to it, a high
score  table  for  example.   Hit The Target by Nick and Matt Tucker - a
simple  fairground  shooting  gallery.  Give 'em hell by Ben Ashley is a
game  in  which you have a choice of aircraft, helicopter, tank or jeep,
It's  red against green and you have to shoot the opposition.  This disc
is recommended for budding programmers.

APD233
Amos Programs 16

 
Contains  code  for  an AMOS PDL catalogue with a full list of the discs
prior  to  May  91.   If  you are thinking of producing a disc catalogue
using  AMOS  then  this program might be useful.  The catalogue boots up
but  you  need  AMOS  for  the  other programs.  Also contains AmosCopy,
SoundTracker2.2  which  is  a better coded version of the converter, and
Spacker which is a small program for packing IFF pictures.

APD244
Amos Programs
Chris Hurst
 
Some  of  the programs on this disc are Shareware - please read the docs
for  information.   Disc  contains  a  program  for you to make your own
slideshows  (listen  to the STARTREK samples while you run the program).
CHR$.AMOS  which  returns  scancodes when you type in a letter or number
from  the  keyboard.   SCANCODE.AMOS  which  returns  the  character and
scancode of any key pressed.  Disc autoboots.

APD245
Amos Programs
Steve Bennett
 
Produced  with  the  beginner  in  mind.   Disc contains skeet-shooting,
light-cycles,  simple-breakout,  king-of-the-castle  and  sprite-viewer.
Also  on  the  disc  are  some sprites sent in after my plea.  Thank you
Steve.   We are still hoping to receive more discs containing sprites so
if you can draw please help.

APD256
Amos Programs
Chris Hurst
 
Disc contains SonicBlast a simple music player.  SBV sprite bank viewer.
Also on the disc is GrubGrabber one of Chris's early games.  Some of the
programs on this disc are Shareware.

APD258
Amos Games 3
Various
 
GLODRICK  by  Luke  Miller.   Nice  music Luke.  The evil star thief has
raided  the night sky of Babbleville, taken the stars and left them in a
deep  cavern.   You  have  to  retrieve them.  Nice platform and ladders
game.  Not too difficult either even I managed to complete a few levels!
ERIC WATCH YOUR STEP by Colin Naylar.  Help Eric to get home.  Landmines
litter the way through 6 levels of difficulty.  A nice touch is hitching
a  lift on the train in a couple of levels.  In the final stage you must
help  Eric  reach  his  front  door.   Simple  game.   HANGMAN  by Simon
Walklate.  Not much need to explain this one.

APD278
Tony's Glider Game

 
This  disc  contains  a  simple game where you have to guide your glider
down to earth avoiding all the planes etc.  Not a bad game.  Also on the
disc is lots of source code for you to play around with.

APD280
Amos Progs 17
Various
 
Another  collection  of AMOS source programs for you to mess around with
and  get  ideas from.  FRACTAL FANTASY - scroller and a mandelbrot, PINK
PANTHER  -  simpledemo  using  Rainbow command, MINEFIELD - avoid unseen
mines  and  get  from  one  side of te screen to the other, AMOSCOPYv2 -
simple  file  copier,  SAMPLECONV - small program for messing about with
samples.

APD281
Amos Progs 18
Various
 
Yet  more programs.  COLOR IT - simple picture painter program, HECTIC -
nicely  presented game, BUNNY BLAST - sick shooting game, PRO-GRAFFETI -
strange program that lets you doodle on a brick wall, MY MUSIC MACHINE -
music creator program and ZONE LOADER - create zones easily.

APD284
amosagram

 
1mb  is needed because the program loads it's word list onto a RAM disc.
Shame!   Enter  a word into this program in anagram form e.g.  LLOHE for
HELLO  and the program will search through it's word list and descramble
the  word  for  you.   Nicely  presented  program.   Useful  for solving
Anagrams.

APD285
Amos Goodies

 
This  disc  does boot and does not need AMOS to appreciate the programs.
CASSETTE LABELLER - create inserts for cassette tapes, NOUGHTS & CROSSES
-  self-explanatory,  INTERLACE  DEMO - shows overscan interlace screen,
KALIEDOSCOPE - program to display patterns on the screen, RABBIE BURNS -
draws a picture of the man himself using lines and PALETTE SETTER - nice
palette program, includes spread function etc.

APD286
tron & brian

 
There  are  two  programs  on  this disc both of which need AMOS to run.
TRON  -  a  very good version of the classic Light Cycles game.  BRIAN'S
THEME - this is a moire pattern display program.  Only one moire pattern
is covered but it can be shown in many different screen modes.

APD295
Amos Programs 19
Steve Bennett
 
Another  collection  of  AMOS  programs  for  you  to  mess around with.
MUSIC_PLAYER(COMPILED)  -  nicely  presented  music  player with a great
spotlight effect, ICON TILE GRABBER - great utility for grabbing bits of
the  screen and saving them in .ABK files, RAMOS HD-FL INSTALL - install
Ramos  on  your  hard  disc the easy way and ASTRO_WARS - a simple shoot
each other up game.

APD296
Amos Programs 20
Various
 
Yet  more  top  quality source programs for you to obtain hints and tips
from.   GLOD - simple text adventure (text), LINEHACKERDEMO - music made
from  telephone  samples,  JAMES  DEMO  -  Amiga  rendition of SIt Down,
Pro-Graffeti  -  strange  program  that lets you doodle on brick walls!,
ZONE  UTILITIES - programs to help you with screen Zones, APDCATALOGUE -
lists  all  PD discs and titles and SLIDESHOW UTILS - to help you create
and display slideshows.

APD297
Amos Programs 21
Top Sprite Software
 
Only one program on this disc.  MoonBase Rescue is a game where you have
to rescue humans from the Moon's surface before a giant Alien eats them.
Not a bad game - the source code could prove very useful to novice games
programers.

APD298
Amos Programs 22

 
Four  more  AMOS  source  programs  for  your  delight  and delictation.
SIMPSONS&TURTLE  DEMO  -  slideshow  of  hand  drawn  pictures  of  both
cartoons,  COOL_SCROLL(COMPILED)  -  very  smooth  scroller, BOBALIZER -
probably  the  best  presented  and  most useful music player in the PD,
includes  lots  of options and MAD_BOMBER - catch the bombs in a tray of
water!

APD301
various programs

 
All  of  these programs can be run by booting the disc.  Defender - well
presented  game,  variation  on  missile  command,  Snake  -  version of
Centipede  apart from you must diffuse bombs so your snake grows larger,
Ghettoblaster  -  music  player  with  3 bits of music, AMOS_Text - text
viewer,  includes docs for programs on this disc and AFP - an Ascii file
printer  with  some nice options.  Lots of source code for AMOS users to
play around with.

APD316
Option 4
Harbinder Ghag
 
Seven  games  on  this disc:  Fruit Catcher, Alien Attack, Connect Four,
Bat  and  Ball, Cycle Racers, Asteroid Belt and Wheel of Fortune.  Small
games but well presented with some nice routines.

APD323
Amos Programs 23
Various
 
Another  collection  of  Amos  source programs for you to gleam routines
from.   Sprite  Grabber - improved version of the origional grabber with
nice  men,  Puzzle - very nicely presented shuffling pieces puzzle game,
ColourScroll and ColourScrollLoader - programs for displaying scrolls in
different colours etc.  Some nice routines in these programs.

APD324
Amos Programs 24
Various
 
Yet  more programs for you to use how you want to:  DM_Demo (COMPILED) -
demo  from  the  programmer  of  some  of  the  programs  on  this disc,
JellyTaire  -  nice  version  of  solitaire, State - accounting program,
CD_Player  (COMPILED)  -  simple  music  player, Cheat_Machine - lots of
cheats  for  games  and  Helpv2  -  online  AMOS disc manager.  Compiled
programs also have their source programs on this disc.

APD336
Trojan Gun Drivers
Trojan
 
Trojan  have supplied driver programs so that you can program your games
to use their Phazer Gun.  Could lead to some interesting new games.

APD341
Totally Amos
Sparx.
 
This is Issue 0 of Len & Anne Tucker's disc magazine for all Amos users.
It  is  a disc full of articles, reviews, Amos chat and programs for you
to  play  with.   Full  details of how to get future issues on the disc.
Source code on this disk:- 
  disklister.amos                  diskutil.amos
  playing_with_text.amos           playing_with_windows.amos
  screenwipes.amos                 sine_wave_creator.amos
  starfield.amos                   
This  issue  is  PD,  we now have TA 1-13 available (not PD) cost- 2.50p
each for issues 1-12, £3.00 each issues 13 onward. Special Offer!! Buy
issues 1-6 as a set for £10!!!

APD346
Assorted Programs
Bill Currie
 
There  are  four programs on this disc.  SCRAPBOOK will display a series
of  'pages'  in  the  form  of  a scrapbook.  PAGE EDITOR can be used to
create  pages  of  text  and pictures for use in Scrapbook.  FILEMANAGER
assembles  IFF  pictures  or  pages  created  with Page Editor.  DELACER
removes  interlace  from  IFF  screens.   It also resizes, standardises,
zooms  and  you  can  use  it  to move regions of the screen.  No longer
Shareware, latest version.  May 1993.

APD347
Assorted Programs
Bill Currie
 
This  is  another disk of programs from Bill Currie.  In this collection
we  have  SHOPPER NOTEBOOK and EVALUATOR.  With SHOPPER you can organise
your  shopping  lists  by  entering  the  item  you  need, its price and
quantity  required,  the  program tale will total the bill for up to 170
items.   Notebook creates a book on the disk where you can make notes of
things  that  you  need  to  remember  etc, maybe which discs you intend
buying from the Amos Library!  Evaluator is a program to demonstrate and
use  an  Eval  procedure written with AMOS.  No longer Shareware, latest
version, May 1993.

APD348
Samples for APD346/347
Bill Currie
 
This  disc  contains sample files to demonstrate the use of the programs
on APD346 and APD347.

APD351
Archivist V2.0
Steven Harrison
 
This  program  will  store data to disc in the form of sequential files.
It has many features including viewing all, some or a selected number of
records.

APD352
Zirus Programs 1
Paul Harthen
 
This disc has programs which show some interesting effects achieved with
AMOS.  These are MULTI SCROLL, ANIMDOTS, and BOUNCY, all these are worth
a  look,  there  is  also music on the disc.  Another section provides a
graphic  ripper  for grabbing screens and a convertor program.  (Neither
of these programs was written with AMOS)

APD353
Zirus Programs 2
Paul Harthen
 
Paul  used  to  produce  a  disc  magazine  called  'Dreamers'  which is
available  from  Deja  Vu.   He indends to produce a new,better and more
AMOS  based  magazine  called ZIRUS.  There is a demo on this disk along
with some fonts for you to use in your programs.

APD354
DAUG 1
Deutsche Amos User Group
 
This  is  the  English  translation  of the German Amos User Group.  The
English  isn't  perfect,  but  it is very readable.  It has articles and
tutorials  on AMOS programming.  It looks interesting and should provide
plenty  of  hints  and  tips  as well as an insight into the German AMOS
scene.

APD355
DAUG 2
Deutsche AMOS User Group
 
This  is  the  English  version  of  the second issue of the German AMOS
group's magazine disc.  The articles and tutorials carry on their series
of teaching Amos programming.  Issue 1 is APD354.

APD369
Amos Club Nederland 1
Dutch Amos Club
 
This magazine disk is full of mini programs and demos to keep you amused
even if you cannot read Dutch!  Some parts are in English.  Interesting.

APD370
Amos Club Nederland 2
Dutch Amos Club
 
This is the second edition of the Dutch Amos Club's magazine.  There are
more  programs  for  you  to  play with, it also has an interesting menu
selecter.

APD371
Amos 3-D Programs
Ben Ashley
 
You  will also need to have the Amos 3-D extension attached to your Amos
disk to see these programs.  These are the first 3-D programs to be sent
in  to  the  library  that have been written with the 3-D editor.  These
programs will show you what you can produce with this extension.

APD372
Amos Programs 29
Various
 
This  disk  gives  you  more  source  code to look at, run and play with
inside Amos.  Also on the disk are two compiled programs for you to see.
 quickcrunch, Rebound, bio, slideshow
 JASON BANKS -  AMOS_NEWS.NDX, clock.amos, encrypt.amos, fastzoom,
index_maker.amos, list_procs.amos, queue.amos, rhino.amos, tedit.amos,
tview.amos.  

APD375
Uncle Simes Progs 1
Simon Nicoll
 
This  collection  of Amos programs has been contributed by Simon Nicoll.
Most  of the programs on this disc will also need Ctext (LPD 56) to run.
If  you  have  Ctext,  but don't know what it can do, then this disc may
give you a few ideas!  Well worth adding to your collection.

APD394
Amos Programs 30
Various
 
This  disk  contains  Amos  source  code  from  all  over the world - 19
programs   in   all.   BIORHYTHMS  DOSCALL  FILE  MANIPULATION  FIND_KEY
REMOTE_SHELL   REQUESTORS  SCREENR  _MANIPULATION  WINDOW  CIRCLE_SCROLL
CYCLO_SCROLL EDITOR MULTI_SCROLL RASTERS is_ERTICAUX STARS COPPER EDITOR
MADDERMIND  PALETTE  SWIZ  VISTAWRITER  Copper  Editor  helps you design
rainbows.   Palette  is a palette manipulator which is very nicely done.
SWIZ  is an easy to use mouse pointer designer, excellent!  Vista writer
writes scripts for animations with Vista.  A great value for money disk.

APD395
Amos Programs 31.
Luke Miller
 
This  game  had  to be entered as a source code as the disk was so full!
Luke  has written a car race game which is really rather good, it's well
worth looking at and playing.  Nice one Luke!

APD405
A.B.C.
Chris Beeson
 
A.B.C.  stands for Adventure Bank Creator.  It contains procedures which
you  can use in your own programs to create adventure games.  There is a
graphics template which shows you how much of the screen can be used for
illustrating  your  adventure,  and  the  banks are created by using the
control  codes  in the procedures.  Chris has kindly provided the source
code  for  A.B.C.   as  well  as the compiled program, but unfortunately
hasn't  had the time to write an example program.  We'd like to see what
you lot out there can do with it!

APD410
Pick'n'Mix 1
Ejber Ozkan - Storm
 
The  idea  of this disk is to provide programs which you, the reader can
improve on and send to Ejber (in London) for inclusion in the next disk.
There  are  compiled  programs on this disk which will run without Amos,
the  source for these is provided.  Due to lack of disk space some progs
are  source only.  The disk is FULL and good value.  It's easy to use as
it  uses  Menu  Master selector program to get to the different parts of
this 'magazine'.

APD411
Easy Amos Progs 1
Various
 
This is the first disk of programs which Easy Amos users will be able to
load  into  Easy Amos to look at how they work.  All these programs have
appeared  on  other APDdisks, but these versions have been converted so
that  you can run them in Easy Amos without getting 'Command not in Easy
Amos'   error   messages!   Progs:-  Atishoo,  Backwards,  Carcollision,
counter,  dot-matrix,  equaliser,  gadget,  leagueSim, life, mandelbrot,
matchCards,  Moire,  MovieScroll,  Musplay1,  Phetaline, player, RAINBOW
WARRIOR, Readme, Request, Set Rain, Simon, Sineprogram, Hiscore_Program,
Sketchpad,  Spritestars,  Vectors,  Wibblelogo,  Wibblephoto, Wireframe,
Hiscore,  Ishhigh.   Rainbow Warrior creates copper bar patterns ever so
easily  - it has always been a top seller for Amos Users._ THIRTY SOURCE
PROGRAMS FOR EASY AMOS USERS!!!!!!!

APD412
Easy Amos Progs 2
Various
 
This  is  the  second disk for Easy Amos users, although, Amos users can
use  them as well.  All programs are elsewhere on the library but spread
over  many  disks.   There  are  13  more  programs  for  you to look at
including Reversi by Dominic Ramsey, OXO, VertText, Vertstars.

APD413
Amos Programs 32
Various
 
This  disk  contains 33 Amos programs!  It's a full value for your money
disk!

3d_requestor.AMOS, amosdir.AMOS, cauchyham.AMOS, convert.AMOS,
Crazy iff viewer.AMOS,DeleteBackUp.AMOS, Disco1.amos, DiskUtility.AMOS,
Disk_Utility.Acc, editobj.AMOS, eventlog, event_logger.AMOS,
Icon_conv.AMOS, Icon_Info.AMOS, Icon_Utility.AMOS, Instr_Conv.AMOS,
Intro.AMOS, NIALL.AMOS, normtolorentzhamc2.AMOS, paperhamcpworkscs.AMOS,
paperhamcpworkscs2.AMOS, pseudoreggeham22works2.AMOS, SCBM.AMOS,
reggeham22works2.AMOS, reggehamp2x2works2.AMOS, Sprite_Swapper.AMOS,
Starfield.AMOS, Starrotate.AMOS, su2reggehamcp.AMOS, vectorcreator.amos,
WAVY1.AMOS, WAVY2.AMOS, WAVY3.AMOS, Whats_an_event_logger? 
yakawareggehalfbright.AMOS, yakawareggesqrham.AMOS, zoneeditor.AMOS

APD414
Amos Programs 33
K. Hall    Yazoo
 
The  main part of this disk is dedicated to the memory of Kevin Hall who
tragically died in a traffic accident in the New Year.  He had put these
two programs onto the Library just before the accident.  The first is an
address  book,  the  second a database for keeping a catalogue of a book
collection.   Both these can be run independently of Amos or loaded into
Amos  for  you  to  customise  to your own use.  The rest of the disk is
taken up by 'Jumble' which is a Demo by Yazoo, whose work will in future
be  found  in the GPDsection of the Library.  All three are runnable as
well as having source code on the disk.

APD415
Uncle Simes Progs 2
Simon Nicoll
 
Also needs CTEXT.  Look to see what stunning things you can do with Amos
and  CText!   Even  uncompiled Simes' scrollers are superb.  Well remmed
Source code for your delight!

APD416
Cas-disk 1
Max Chevalier
 
This disk boots to a game of O's & X's, but if you look through the disk
using Amos, you will find some good source programs as well.  Cas stands
for Chaos All Stars which is a French group of coders.

APD417
Which Way Out
Mike Wellman
 
This is the sourcecode for a game written with TOME.  YOU WILL NEED TOME
AND  AT  LEAST  ONE  MEG  OF  CHIP  MEM  TO  SEE THIS GAME.  It involves
travelling around a maze of tunnels on a hoverscooter.

APD434
Grapher & Life
David Head
 
There  are 2 programs on this disk, the first is GRAPHER which will plot
mathematical functions onto a graph, including 3-D functions.  There are
extensive docs on the disk and the author says that it will be of use to
maths  &  science  students  from GCSE standard and upwards.  It is well
presented and uses the Amos editor to run.  The second program is called
LIFE.   It follows a colony of cells from generation to generation using
simple  maths  functions to decide on whether a cell lives or dies.  You
decide  on the criteria for survival in the menu section of the program.
An interesting addition to the library.

APD436
Amos Menus
Paul Harthen
 
This  program  will  allow you to create click and select menus for your
programs  which  will be very useful if you have several programs on the
same disk.  Full instruction given!

APD447
Programs From Denmark
Arne Neilsen
 
This  is,  I  believe,  our  first entry from Denmark.  It contains five
useful  programs:-  a menu system, a disk base, a morse code program, an
input  routine and a novel program which will give you info on resistors
if you put in the colour bands found on it.

APD446
Uncle Simes 3
Simon Nicoll
 
You  will  also need CTEXT to run these programs which will show you how
great  this extension is!  Fantastic effects for budding demo writers, I
especially liked the Plasma scroller - has to be seen to be believed!

APD450
Totally Amos Source 1
TA Readers
 
I  promised  ages  ago that I would put together a disk of programs from
Totally  Amos.  Well here it is!  It also contains programs which were a
bit  too  big  to  put  on the mag disk.  Thanks to all who contributed!
Look out for Disk 2!
 Stephen Bradley -  mastermind.AMOS, masterpersonal.AMOS

 Paul May -  amoslabels.AMOS, cass2.amos, Tape-inlay.AMOS.                   

 David Smith - awari
 
 Hashed Salim Rashid - ChangeBankName.AMOS, CLI-Command.AMOS,
DisplayDir.AMOS, Mix'N'Palette.AMOS, Mix_Example.AMOS, PrintAT.AMOS,
SetComment.AMOS, SetProtection.AMOS.

 Steve Bennett - Bare_bone_colouring_book.amos
 
 Paul_Townsend - alarm clock
 
 Gary Crook - dungeon shell

APD453
Amos Progs 34
Mostly Aussie P D!
 
There  are  119  source  code  programs  on this disk!!!  That must be a
record!   Only  one  needs  a support file, the rest are self contained.
Load  these  into  Amos  and  see  how  much  you  can learn.
  3d_cube, 3D_Object_Mover, Alert, AMOSGOLD, Amotron, Arrows, asteriods,
balls,   Bank-Type,  Beep,  bobSine,  Bounce,  BUBBLESORT,  Change_Bank,
checkforprinter,  Circular-Bob-Plotter,  CITY-SQUARE, CLIMouse, CLIRead,
CLIText,  CLIWindow, Cls_In_Paper, coloumn, Colour_To_Grey, Coordinates,
Colour_To_Stone,  Combat-Planes, Comment, Conversation, Cosine, CosineA,
CosineB,  CosineC, CosineD, CosineE, CosineF, CosineG, CosineH, CosineI,
CosineJ,  DateTime, DefIntro, DefPref, Delete_all, Delete_Sprites, Info,
dev_info,  Diary_SOURCE, diskinfo, device_info, Disk_Change_RTN, flakes,
DISPLAY_FONTS, Draw, Draw_Button, drive_write, DumbTerm, Execute, Flight
Fade_in_Picture,  file_inf,  General_Selector, Guru, HearITV1-0, KReset,
Icon's_to_Iff, icon_info, mandelbrot, MasterMind2_4, Mouse_Colours, Push
NewRGB,  othello,  Paralax_Scroll,  paranoia,  Pattern_Viewer,  Protect,
Psychiatrist,    Push_&_Draw_Example,   Push_Button,   rainbowscrolling,
RainbowSine,  Rally-X,  Refraction, Rob's_Alert_Box, Rock-Star, Sam_Raw,
Roll_Screen,   SavePref,   Screen_Bounce,  Screen_FX_#1,  Screen_Set_Up,
Scroller1-3,   Set   up,Push,Draw,   SetPref,   Set_Tile_Size,   Set_Up,
Set_X_HotSpot,   Set_Y_HotSpot,   Shade,   ShowAll-v3.info   ShowITV1-0,
Sprite's_to_Iff, Sprite_Height, Sprite_Width, starfield, Surfaces, Task,
TestChange,  Time,  Timer_Eg,  tips,  TWILIGHTZONE,  Vector, vegiecount,
Wire, wobbletest, WProtect, Zone-Colours,

APD449
Pick'n'Mix 2
Ejber Ozkan
 
This  disk  autoboots,  but you will need Amos to make use of the source
progs on the disk.  It contains a couple of games, a printer utility and
an  Unlocker to unlock Amos procedures.  The idea behind this disk, like
it's  predecessor  APD410, is for programmers to pick a program and mix
in  their  own code to improve the result and then send it back yp Ejber
who  will  put  your  update  onto  Pick'n'Mix 3.  Any contributions are
welcome.  Some of the programs this time were sent in by Roy Huntley.

APD460
Totally Amos Progs 2
TA Readers
 
This  is  the  second  in  the  Totally Amos disk collection.  This disk
contains  programs  written by TA readers which were too big to put onto
the  magazine.   The  programs  are  POOLS  by  Andrew Cartwright.  This
generates  a  random  series  of numbers which could help you to make up
your  mind  with  the  weekly  pools coupon, there is a superb anim of a
wireframe running man in the intro to the program.  Jeff Tullin provides
an  alternative  requestor.   John Law has a crossword puzzle and Martin
MacDonald,  a  O&X's  game.   Stephen  Bradley presents MasterMind.  The
largest  contribution  comes  from  Steve  Bennett  who  gives us a Zone
Editor,  Maze  crazy  and walk around a maze which was featured in Amiga
Shopper,  and  a  game called Planet which will help you to get to grips
with the basics of writing a shoot'em up game.

APD264
J A K Routines#1
John Kinsella
 
This  is  a disk of very useful routines which will be of tremendous use
to beginners who may be asking "How do I do.....".  These routines are:-
SPLERGE-splurge  a pic onto the screen:  FRACTAL TREE- creates a fractal
drawn  tree:   LINE EDIT - allows editing of a line of a given length in
your  prog:  BAT'N'BALL- a little Arkanoid type game:  SCROLLER - how to
scroll  text  as  seen  in  demos:   OUTLINE  areas on the screen in any
colour:  FADE PICTURE:  32-16 - converts 32 or 64 colour .iff pics to 16
colours.  PICCY CONVERTOR:  MUSIC PLAYER:  PIXELIZE - enlarges pixels in
given  area  of  screen  using  Pixelize command:  3-D REQUESTOR - a 3-D
requestor prog to prompt user:  BUTTON PRESS- checks parts of screen for
user response: 3-D BOX: FILE COPIER - ute for copying a file from A to B

APD463
Amos Programs 35
G. Albrow
 
This   is  a  treaure  chest  of  programming  from  G.   Albrow.   Well
recommended for all programmers.
  
AMOSPro Progs - TIMEDATE, CALC, Palette_Changer.amos, ARTWORK, ZONESET

AMOS1.34 Progs - 3D_Menu(hires), 3D_Menu, AMAL_Circle, Arc, ASCII_Table,
Beta_sketch,     Bob_sin_curve,    CD_Player,Circular_bob,    C_Cycling,
Fancy_appear_1,  FlowChart,  Full_Screen_Menu,  Hangman, Horiz_Venetian,
Letter_Slide,     Listpalette,    Minefield,    Music_Player,    ND_Box,
Number_Shuffle,  OXO_v2,  Palette,  Periodic_Table, Quadratic, Remmaker,
Reversesample,  Rolling_Horizon,  Rubber_Line, Scalable_A, Screen_Clear,
Scrolling_Landscape_Demo,  Scroll_Slider, Structured_Drawing, Temp_Conv,
Venetian, WSPAL_v8,

APD472
Amos Progs 36
G. Albrow
 
This  is  Mr Albrow's second disk of source code.  The first APD463 has
proved  to  be very popular.  This disk is mostly for AMOS PRO users and
includes  updated  versions of some previously released programs as well
as  some  new ones to look at.  Lots of people are asking for Pro source
disks,  but  the only way we can put together such disks is if Pro users
send in programs!  (it need not be a full disk!!)
 WordSquare, Procalc, Solitaire, FontShower, WSPAL_8_v8, Quiz, Airbrush,
Cycle_box,  Linkage, Low_pass_filter, Maze, Meter, Pendulum_(Graphical),
PieChart, Sam_Reverse, WBK_Window, Word_wrap_demo,

APD467
Pick'N'Mix 3
Ejber Ozkan (Storm)
 
This  is  the  third  in  the  Pick'N'Mix  series  which  is  a  type of
magazine/program  exchange  set  up  last  year  by  Ejber for people to
contribute original programs or improved versions of progs from previous
disks.   No 3 contains a map editor as its main feature.  Source code is
on the disk as well for you to look at.

APD468
JAK Routines #2
John Kinsella
 
JAK#1  is  a  popular disk, hopefully #2 will be the same.  Here we have
lots  more  source  routines  for you to use and a good text reader that
also  displays  graphics.  This can be seen in action as John uses it to
display his doc file which tells you what is on the disk.  Good value!
  32_TO_16.AMOS                    3D_BOX.AMOS
  3D_REQUESTER.AMOS                ART_PROGGY.AMOS
  BAT_N_BALL.AMOS                  BUTTON_PRESS.AMOS
  FADE_PICTURE.AMOS                FILE_COPIER.AMOS
  FRACTAL_TREE.AMOS                LINE_EDIT.AMOS
  MUSIC_PLAYER.AMOS                OUTLINE.AMOS
  PICCY_CONVERTER.AMOS             PIXELIZE.AMOS
  SCROLLER.AMOS                    SHIFTER.AMOS
  SHIP_GAME.AMOS                   SPEED_RACERS.AMOS
  SPLERGE.AMOS                     

APD478
Marksman #1
David Green
 
This  is  the  first  issue  of  David's magazine disk for owners of the
Trojan  Light  Phazer.  It contains plenty to read as well as a game for
you  to try your shooting skills on.  The game also works with the mouse
if you do not own a phazer.  Lots of info on compatbility etc.

APD479
Marksman #2
David Green
 
Issue 2 of the only disk mag for Trojan Light Phazer owners.  Contains a
game which can be played with either the gun or a mouse.

APD483
Amos Progs 37
Various
 
Lots  and  lots  of  lovely  sourcecode  for you to play with.  Programs
include a string bank editor, demos, and lots more interesting routines.
 string_bank_editor
  3dOXO.AMOS                       AutoExec.amos
  ColourRaveDemo.AMOS              Copper-Paint.AMOS
  Copper-PaintV2_1.AMOS            FunDemo.AMOS
  HardLineDemo.AMOS                HiLow.Amos
  Insomnia.AMOS                    Instructions.AMOS
  Master_Source.AMOS               ModulFUMBLE.AMOS
  ScanCheck.AMOS                   ScriptConv.AMOS                  

APD484
Lateral Quizes 6-10
Dr John Foley
 
This  disk  contains the source code files for John's Compiled Quiz disk
GPD211 The programs will keep you amused for ages!

APD486
J A K Routines #3
John Kinsella
 
Here  is  the  third  in a popular series of disks for Amos programmers.
John  has  been providing a wealth of routines for you over the past few
months, I hope that he will continue to do so in the future.
  Colour_2_BW.AMOS              CommandLine_Cut.AMOS
  FileReq_Creator.AMOS          File_Type.AMOS
  Inverse_Pic.AMOS              Joy_Test.AMOS
  LD_SV_Palette.AMOS            MandleBrot.AMOS
  Multi_Channel.AMOS            Music Player.AMOS
  Negative_Pic.AMOS             Pic_Roller.AMOS
  Screen_Flip.AMOS              Screen_Sine.AMOS
  Screen_Wipe.AMOS              Vertical_Text.AMOS

APD487
AMOS Effects
Various
 
This  disk  has  been  put  together from other disks in the library and
contains a collection of screen wipes and scrollers.  We are often asked
for these by new programmers who find it a bit expensive buying loads of
program  disks  to sift through for just what they want.  If this proves
popular, I'll spend some time making up disks on othher subjects.
  ScreenWipe1.AMOS      ScreenWipe2.AMOS        ScreenWipes.AMOS 
  screenwipes1.amos     screenwipes3.amos       screenwipes_2.amos
  screen_wipes.AMOS     screen_wipes4.amos      screen_wipes5.amos
             
  circlescroll.AMOS     Circle_scroll.amos      Cyclo_scroll.amos 
  demoscroll.AMOS       Letter_Slide.AMOS       moviescroll.amos
  mscroll.amos          multi_scroll.amos       Paralax_Scroll.AMOS 
  SCROLLER.AMOS         Scroller1-3.AMOS        scrolly.amos
  scrolly1.AMOS         ScrollyMountains.AMOS   Scroll_Slider.amos 
  smoothscroll.AMOS     spadgescroll.amos       VU_Scroll.AMOS
  WAVY1.AMOS            WAVY2.AMOS              WAVY3.AMOS         

APD489
Amos Programs #38
Various
 
 PETER CORBETT - Fast_Map_Editor
 ROSS_THOMAS   -   CopyMem,   DirFirst,   DirNext,  DiskInfo,  DiskProt,
ExecuteToNil,    FileComment,    GetDate,    GetDOSError,    ReadSector,
Screen_Saver,  SetProt,  WB2_Reset,  Windclose,  Windexecute,  Windopen,
Winput,  Wprint,  WriteSector,  Demos  1-7, DirFirst, DirNext, DiskInfo,
GetDOSError,  Winput,  Windclose,  Windexecute,  Windopen,  Screen_Saver
Wprint 
 OTHER  PROGRAMMERS  -  Malcolm  Lavery,  Len  Tucker.  Ad's_Iff_Loader,
Big_Text_Printer,  Bob_Text,  call_dos,  Center_Font,  Center_Font_Demo,
Center_Font_Demo_Two, Clock, critters_credits, Enter_Password, dev_info,
Format_A_Disk,  Get_Hex$_Colour_Values,  Get_Level_Password, Lazer_Text,
Lazer_Text_Two,      MED_Player,      Music_Bank_Finder,     Pic_Roller,
Pour_On_Screen,    Screen_Sine,   Screen_Wipe,   Scrolly_Coloured_Fonts,
Sine_Cos_Bob,  sinus_routines,  Sin_Text, Sin_Text_Two, SixLineDateTime,
Snowing_Message,  Sonix_Player_Source, Spiral_Effect, Spiral_Effect_Two,
Tele_Print,      text_appear,      Starfield_&_Rotating_Menu,     weird,
Whole_Screen_Sine, WIPE_ONE

APD490
T A Progs #4
T A Readers
 
This  is  another collection of Amos programs which have been sent in by
TA readers over the past few months.  They include a tank battle game, a
3-D footie sim, a tetris clone, a pipeline type game and a classic space
invaders.
 Steve_Bennett -  Zone_Editor_V1_6.Amos            

 Stephan_Scholz  -  Amoeba.AMOS,  Ball.AMOS,  Dogfight.AMOS,  Life.AMOS,
Party.AMOS, ScreenFader.AMOS.

 Aaron_McCormick -   Invaders.AMOS, Just_Dotty.AMOS, Plumber.AMOS,
Shapes.AMOS, TdFloor.AMOS                     

 Len_Boyns - Tank Battle                    

APD493
J A K Routines #4
John Kinsella
 
John  sent in a new collection of routines faster than I expected.  This
disk  contains  another  feast of useful programs for you to look at and
see just how things are done.
AMOS PRO:- AP_Music_Player      AP_Music_Player.AMOS        
           De-Colon-V1_3        De-Colon-V1_3.AMOS
 
AMOS 1.36:-ASCII_Print          ASCII_Print.AMOS        File_Requester
  File_Requester_V1_3.AMOS      Pic_Dither              Pic_Dither.AMOS
  Polygon                       Polygon.AMOS            Quiver
  Quiver.AMOS                   Req_Default.ASC         Req_Example.ASC
  Rotate                        Rotate.AMOS             vert_Scroller
  Vert_Scroller.AMOS            WIN_Button              WIN_Button.AMOS

APD500
Totally Amos Progs 5
T A  Readers
 
This  disk  is  put  together from submissions from TA Readers.

 Ben Ashley  -   X-Base, Lepricorn, Name-Maker, Text-Title-Creator,
 Zone_EditorV5

 Karl Roberts - Amal_stars         Archimedes-Spiral(s)
                Blitter_scroll     Freaky-Sinus-scroll
                Interrupt-equalizers Mira-fractals

 Ron Moreland - TimeCurrency, World Time

 Aaron_McCormick -  Amazing, Colours, Sim_Frog, Space_Generator

APD503
Amos Progs 39
Various
 
More  sourcecode  for  you  to play around with!

David_Smith -  Format, Crossword solve.amos,

Fabrizio_Bazzo - Gallery.AMOS, HideAndSeek.AMOS, Mefistofele.AMOS, 

Sergio_Perciballi - clearblanklines, killcomments, circlewhirl, circlewhirlperspec, hilbertcurves, 
sierpinskycurves, spiralsquares, _circletypemove, _rndcircles, _rndcircles2, _rndcircletype, _rndtiles,
_rndtype, discview5.2a, listall, recursion,

DS_Christian -   Invaders, Suicide_Mission,

APD504
Amos Progs 40
Malcolm Lavery
 
A  disk  full of routines for you to experiment with!  There are several
scrollers and text effects, simple plasma routines, menus and lots more.
  3D_Display_Buttons,          3D_Display_Proc,
  3D_Display_Switch_Demo,      3d_Text_Proc,
  Bloody_Good_Scroller,        Critters_Menu,
  Dancing_VU_Bars,             Gravity_1,
  Gravity_2,                   Land_Creator,
  Load_Rainbow_Proc,           Moving_bobs,
  Multi_Function_Scroller,     music.abk
  Pause_&_VU_Scroller,         Pause_Scroller,
  Raining_Bows,                Scrolly_&_VUbars,
  Scrolly_&_VUbars_Compiled,   Shiney_Star,
  Simple_Dialog_Box,           Simple_Menu,
  Simple_Plasma,               Simple_Plasma_Two,
  Whizz_Text,                  Whizz_Text_Demo.

APD505
Kiddie Paint
Malcolm Lavery
 
This  has  been included in this section as it was sent in by malcolm to
help  programmers with AMOS PRO to seehow a simple paint program can be
constructed  in  Pro  using  the  Interface  language.  We are only just
beginning  to get PRO only programs, so this is for those of you who who
keep asking for something done with Amos Pro!  Thanks Malcolm!

APD506
Aus. Progs #1
Various
 
This  is  a  disk  of Amos source code for games including Lunar Patrol,
Roulette, Amosgold and Blocktris.

APD507
Aus. Progs #2
Various
 
This disk has the source for NinoCad - a mini art package for use inside
AMOS, Blast-It, Electric Files, Galactic Game, Mastermind, and Orthello.

APD508
Aus. Progs #3
Various
 
Source versions of  accessories  including  a Grabber and various casino
games including Blackjack and Roulette.

APD509
Aus. Progs #4
Various
 
Source only disk containing Greenover.Amos and a verion of TRON.

APD510
Aus. Progs #5
Various
 
This  disk  contains  about  32  programs  covering  many angles of Amos
programming - a sort of lucky dip!
  LIFT-RUNNER,          MULTIPLY,               Alert,
  BobScroll,            BUBBLESORT,             Change_Bank,
  CITY-SQUARE,          Colour_To_Grey,         Colour_To_Stone,
  DateTime,             Delete_Sprites,         Draw_Button,
  Fade_in_Picture,      FontReq,                Laser_Painter,
  Mouse_Colours,        MUSIC-MERGER,           MUSIC-MERGER_C,
  MY_DAZE,              NewRGB,                 Paralax_Scroll,
  Push_&_Draw_Example,  Push_Button,            Rainbow_Off,
  Roll_Screen,          SAMPLE-EDITOR,          sample_bank_maker,
  Screen_Bounce,        Screen_Set_Up,          Scroller1-3,              
  starfield,            ZoomDemoNS                  

APD511
Aus. Progs #6
Various
 
Source  disk  containing  2  versions of a program called DefPixel and a
presentation program which gives information on the solar system.

APD512
Aus. Progs #7
Various
 
More Amos Source and a Virus Checker
ArtiSarge_V1.0, Virus Checker V6.04, ArtiSarge.AMOS, HackComm.AMOS,
KarmaLoader.AMOS, HackComm

APD513
Aus. Progs #8
Various
 
A  disk  containing  a  text adventure called Castle Greystone, a cowboy
shoot- the - baddie game, Wild West and various Amos routines
  CosineB.AMOS                     CosineC.AMOS
  CosineD.AMOS                     CosineE.AMOS
  CosineF.AMOS                     CosineG.AMOS
  CosineH.AMOS                     CosineI.AMOS
  CosineJ.AMOS                     Flakes.Amos
  PPoker.AMOS                      Wire.AMOS                        

APD514
Aus. Progs #9
Various
 
various Amos games and routines in source form.
 NUMBER-CRUNCH,   Autoexec.AMOS,   Yachtc_Game.AMOS,  Yachtc_Start.AMOS,
Yachtc_Title.AMOS,  Bounce.AMOS, EightQueens.AMOS, Rob's_Alert_Box.AMOS,
Surfaces.AMOS.

APD515
Aus. Progs #10
Various
 
Various proggies for Amos 3-D and some utility programs.

APD516
Aus. Progs #11
Various
 
Lots  of  code - Alien Shoot, Battle Emu, a Demo, Solitaire, Mandelbrot,
Multiply annd Orthello

APD517
Aus. Progs #12
Various
 
A disk for Amos 3-D users.  This is a 3-D demo called Chaos Vectors.

APD518
Aus. Progs #13
Various
 
More Source code routines and a load of sound samples.
The Programs:- 
  Berty&Bartt.AMOS
  Diary_SOURCE.AMOS                Disk_Change_RTN.AMOS
  Mini_Diary.AMOS                  Pattern_Viewer.AMOS
  READ_ME_FIRST.AMOS               Sam_Raw.AMOS
  Screen_FX_#1.AMOS                Timer_Eg.AMOS

The Sounds:-
  Break Neck                       Car Horn
  Hurt1                            Hurt2 + Machine_Gun
  Jack Hammer                      Kneed
  Pain1                            Punch
  Shoot1                           Shoot2
  ShotMan1                         ShotMan2

APD519
Aus. Progs # 14
Various
 
This  is  a  disk  which is probably only of use to Australians !  Lotto
magic  picks  out  numberss  for the Aussie lottery and Predrivers tests
Learner drivers on the rules of the road - as they apply in Australia.

APD520
Aus. Progs #15
Various
 
Source  code  versions  of  some  Aussie demos and other useful bits and
pieces.
  3-D_CUBE_DEMO,                   STARFIELD, 
  SAMPLE_BANK_MAKER,               SCROLLIE_DEMO,
  HEXEDITOR,                       BATMAN_DEMO_4,
  AMONOID,                         BLADE_DEMO
  Alert.AMOS                       CITY SQUARE.AMOS
  FontReq.AMOS                     MakeScreen.amos
  Menuprogram.amos                 NewRGB.AMOS
  Quicksort.AMOS                   SCANCODES(A1000)           
  Scroller1-3.AMOS

APD521
Aus. Progs #16
Various
 
Programs  on  this disk include Combat Planes, Rock Star, ShowAll annd a
demo callled Vision41

APD522
Aus. Progs #17
Various
 
Previously known as AUS27.  This is a disk of games and other routines.
  decode.AMOS                      demo2.amos
  imagemaker.amos                  intro.amos
  KENO.AMOS                        KENO80.AMOS
  YACHTC_TITLE.AMOS

APD523
Aus. Progs #18
Various
 
Several  programs  for  you here - Bankgrabber, Column Demo, Mastermind,
Help Accessory, Pic Compactor, STP, Tank Battle,Conversation and Display
Fonts

APD524
Aus. Progs #19
Various
 
This disk contains Bagdad Nights and Sample Tester.

APD525
Aus. Progs #20
Various
 
This  disk  has  Starstruck,  some music, acircular bob plotter and a 10
liner called Spitfire.

APD526
Aus. Progs #21
Various
 
Hang the Man and various mouse pointers and pictures.

APD527
Aus. Progs #22
Various
 
Mastermind, Landmine and War Movie.

APD528
Aus. Progs #23
Various
 
Programs  on this disk are:- AmosTron, Kamikaze Kombat, Puzzler, Roadhog
and other source routines.

APD529
Aus. Progs 24
Various
 
This  disk  has  the source code for 4 games, Shipwalker, Sub Hunt, Tech
Battle and Clock it.

APD530
Aus. Progs #25
Various
 
This disk contains the code for Maze Craze.

APD531
Aus. Progs #26
Various
 
Source code for Light cycles, Maze Runner, Vegie Count and a Slide show.

APD532
Aus. Progs #27
Various
 
Programs  onthis disk are Aerospeller, Amos-Daze, Asteroids, Lamer Demo,
Paranoia, Rally-X, Space Flight and Scroll Demo.

APD558
Amoner Issues 1 & 2

 
An Amos disk magazine.

APD559
Amoner Issues 3 & 4

 
Two more issues of the Amoner disk mag.

APD560
Amoner Issues 5 & 6

 
Issues 5 and 6 of this disk magazine.

APD561
Slideshow

 
A slide show of original artwork.

APD562
Font Utility
From Australia
 
Previously known as AUS24.

APD563
Amos WB-Intuition
John Kinsella
 
Another  disk  of  programs  from  John  Kinsella, programmer of the JAK
Routines disks amongst others.

APD564
Aus. Progs #28
From Australia
 
Source  code  included  on  this  disk  for  Fireworks, a mini fireworks
display,  SlowPrint  which puts text onto the screen a letter at a time,
Launcher,  which  is a simple but addictive game which uses the simplest
of  graphics,  you  direct  a cannon shot to hit a robot which is coming
towards  you  from  two  screens away.  The sooner you hit him, the more
people you save.  Sin-wave demonstrates sine waves, the program displays
a  line  of  bobs  which,  when  you  move  the  mouse up or down ripple
accordingly.  Trip is a colour pattern display.  There is also a menu if
you boot th disk rather than loading via Amos.

APD565
Aus. Progs #29
From Australia
 
This disk contains an AMAL editor, various packers/unpackers, an art
package and a demo.

APD566
Aus. Progs #30
From Australia
 
This disk is called GNB Progs and contains lots of source code routines
and compiled versions of the programs.
  ASCII Reader.AMOS                Input Procs I.AMOS
  Klondike.AMOS                    Ladybug Mapper.AMOS
  Ladybug(AMAL).AMOS               Ladybug.AMOS
  Machine Poker.AMOS               Mazed Mouse.AMOS
  Mutant Factor.AMOS               Pop 'N' Panic.AMOS
  Typing Speed Tester.AMOS         

APD567
Aus. Progs #31
From Australia
 
This disk contains Unpack a Pic, Single Sample Convertor, Tome Updater
and a game called Dodge it which is a game on a narrow screen where you
are a helicopter pilot trying to avoid other aircraft which are hurtling
towards you.

APD568
Aus. Progs #32
From Australia
 
This compilation contains Clowns, info on Hepatitus B, An idea on
improving Amos, Pepsi Amal demo, St convertor, and a scenery viewing
program.

APD569
Aus. Progs #33
From Australia
 
This disk is also known as Mick's Mix #1. It contains two demos -
Deathwish 1 and 2, FIRE! and Midlife which are both games which need
finishing.

APD570
Aus. Progs #34
From Australia
 
The programs on this disk are Bomber, Compiler bugs, Filemaster,
FontbankMaker_Pro, Hexapuz (Hard!)In this puzzle you have to match the
coloured lights on a ring of hexagons by rotating or swapping
theindividual hexagons. Also on the disk is Matrix, Mini paint and
Scramble.

APD571
Aus. Progs #35
From Australia
 
This is a disk of utilities which containns Coordinate and Ascii
monitor, Help accessory, Colour monitor, Mini Utils and Pixel Reader.

APD572
Aus. Progs #36
From Australia
 
Loads of progams on this disk!  Address book can hold up to 200 records,
ColourCyc  is  a  cycled  colour  demo, Disk Action is a Filemaster type
prog,  Knotted  Gnomes is great, if you've seen the magic square puzzles
where  you have to make a square out of cards by matching heads and feet
of  gnomes  etc  then you'll know whatthis one is about.Also on the disk
are  Menus2  and  Pacman.   A  further  directory holds programs by Paul
Hickman  -  FileCopy.acc,  mask  modify, PixelTools, Polylandscapes, and
Quick Compiler.

APD573
Aus. Progs #37
From Australia
 
This disk has programs called Multisave, Rainmaker Demo (Rainbow maker)
Sharp2Amiga, ShowIt, SpaceGuns and a puzzle game called Spinning wheels
to make your cogs turn!

APD589
Amos Programmer's W/B Tool
From Australia
 
A disk of utilities for Workbench and Amos

APD591
Amos Progs #41
Various
 
  RainMaker  lets  you  build  a  rainbow  using a simple set of tools, and
allows  you  to  save  it and include it with your own AMOS programs.  This
version  allows you to save as both an ASCII procedure and as an AMOS bank.
It uses bank 12, but you can easily modify the source to use another.
Full instructions on disk.
 AMOS  Pro Rainbow Editor Accessory Version:  1.01 (Oct/1993) Written by
Markus Steinlein using AMOS Professional and for Amos Pro only. Full
manual on disk.
  COL_CYC.AMOS                     col_cyc2.AMOS
  menus2.AMOS                      
There  are  also  many  other  programs on this disk, have fun exploring
them!  They include an Amigados help guide and a directory full of
programs including a docs file listing its contents. The disk also
includes a 3Dspaceships program.

APD592
Amos Progs #42
Various
 
  rpg_source.amos                  Sprite_Grabber_Steve.AMOS
  Tron-4(Banks).AMOS               wb3_interface_designer.amos

   FastPDDisLab  is  a  label  printer for 3.5" disk labels.  The Readme
file is in English, but the main instructions are in German.

D_Solve Crossword    (c)David Smith 1993
D_Solve Crossword      Written and compiled using AMOS Professional
Crossword Compilations, and Program (c)David Smith 1993 There are two
crossword formats on this disk, along with an offer to obtain more for a
disk and a small donation.

APD593
Amos Progs #43
Malcolm Lavery
 
 Level_Editor and Level Loader
 MIXED_GRAFIX a directory with some graphics drawn by Malcolm.
There is also a Christmas greeting which loads if the disk is booted.
  N_Billy_Baloon          N_Fade_In_Iffy       N_Fade_Out_Iffy
  N_Flash_Text            N_Flash_Text_II      N_HiScore_table 
  N_Info_Box              N_Info_Box_Demo      N_Leading_Zeros
  N_Question_Displayer    N_Question_Editor    N_Screen_Info 
  N_Starfield_Editor      N_Starfield_One      N_Starfield_Two
  N_Zoom_In               N__Credit_Scroller   O_Credit_Proc 
  O_De_Res                O_Game_Menu_Proc     O_Game_Password_Proc
  O_High_Scores_Proc      O_Lens_Effect        O_Lens_Effect_Three 
  O_Lens_Effect_Two       O_Meltdown_Proc      O_Pop_Up_Message
  Quiz.Data               XMAS_GREETING        XMAS_GREETING 
  Xmas_mod2

APD594
JAK Routines #5
John Kinsella
 
This is the very latest in JAK's collection of program disks. This one
includes some useful procedures and effects as well as a TOME to AMAP
convertor. Good value as always.

APD595
Lateral Quizes
Dr John Foley
 
John the doc has been busy again thinking up more brain teasers in the
style of 'Catchphrase'. This disk has the source-only versions of the
programs so that you can get 4 for the price of one! The clues given for
the phrases aresometimes obvious, sometimes a bit cryptic, and sometimes
really obscure, unless you have a weird brain! A strangely addictive set
of puzzles.

APD597
Amos Progs #44
G.Albrow
 
Amos Classic   Demo_1-7
  _CLEARSCREEN   _CLOSESCREEN  _CLOSEWINDOW  _DISPLAYBEEP   _MOVE 
  _MOVESCREEN    _MOVEWINDOW   _OPENSCREEN   _OPENWINDOW    _PRINTITEXT
  _RECTFILL      _SETAPEN      _SETBPEN      _WRITEPIXEL
Amos Pro
 Palette_Creator  RemKiller Turtle  3D-4_In_A_Row     AEd_Help
 AmosCalc         ASCII_Loader      Chess_Guide       MemoryEdit
 3D-4_In_A_Row    3D_Object_Viewer  Ball_Sprites_2*8  Ball_Sprites_3*8
 Big_Ball_Sprites Bounding_Box      Brightness_Proc   Calc
 CircleFlood      CircleFlood_Demo  Cycle_Gadgets     Division_Using_MOD 
 Dot_Cube         Factorial         High_Score_Table  Mastermind_Quiz
 Matrices_1       Matrices_2        MiniQuiz          Pixelise
 Scrabble_Shell   Silhouette        WireFrame_Cube    Worm_Shoot 
 Small_Ball_Sprites                 Ten_Green_Bottles Vector

APD599
JD Extension
Joerg Dommermuth
 
This is an excellent extension for Amos Pro.  It is an extension full of
commands  which  look very interesting indeed.  The full docs are on the
disk,  but  are in German, so unless you can translate them, will not be
of much use except to read the command names. 

APD600
Amos Extensions Disk
Various
 
Lots of people have been enquiring about PD extensions lately, now you
can get them! Thanks to Karl Roberts for sending them to us.
The extensions on this disk are:
Turbo 1.9    Versions for Classic and Pro by Manuel Andre
Easy Life    Classic                      By Paul Hickman
The EASY LIFE extension is designed to do just that - make life easier -
especially  the  parts  of  said  life spent writing AMOS programs.  The
commands  included  are  not  designed  to  speed up graphics to amazing
levels,  but  to  speed  up  the  actual  computing  work  done  in  the
background, and to allow you to read various internal AMOS variables.

                   ****CONTINUED ON NEXT RECORD****

APD600
Amos Extensions...Cont
Various
 
                 ****CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS RECORD****
EME          Classic and Pro
Enhanced  Music  Extension  v3.0  DEMOVERSION.  Written by Paul Reece An
excellent  extension!   The  demo version allows music to be loaded in 3
times  before  it  is  tripped  out.  Gives all the music commands which
should have been in Amos 
LDos Classic by Niklas Sjöberg
 This  is  a new fast, and efficient extension for AMOS V1.3 and higher.
It  is  supposed to correct some bugs of AMOS and add some functions not
available in AMOS including New load and save routines.  
Lserial Classic by Niklas Sjöberg
 This is an extension full of serial commands.
Stars        Classic and Pro
AMOS  Stars  Extension  V2.23b.  (Shareware) By Jason G Doig Stars is an
Amos  (and AmosPro) system extension, that provides many new commands of
which allow you to create starfields.  

APD601
Amos Progs #45
Various
 
Galactic  Gabby  is a Space invader clone, PNR Quiz tests your knowledge
of  pop  music and we have the code for 2 more of John the Doc's Lateral
Quizes (16 & 17)

APD602
F1 Source code Issue 1
F1 Licenseware
 
Steve  and  Belinda  Bye who run a new Licenseware scheme in Exeter have
sent  us  in  their  first issue of Amos PD source code.  Some of it has
appeared on Amos PD before, but a lot of it is Steve's own work.  

APD606
NB AMOS
Neil Wright
 
This  is  the  demo  version  of  Issue  5  of the Nothing But Amos disk
magazine  which  is proving very popular indeed.  Full details of how to
get future issues are on the disk.

APD608
Using Amos #1
Colin McCallister
 
This  is  another  Amos User's magazine disk, this first issue being PD.
It  contains  articles,  or  info on what will be in it plus source code
directories.

APD611
Liberator extras
T-Soft
 
This  disk  is  released  into  PD  by  the  author of the new Liberator
extension.   It contains some utilities, most of which will be of use to
the more experienced programmer, as is the Liberator extension itself.
 It is a must to those who have the Liberator extension, which is not
itself PD.

APD612
amoszine issue 0
F1 Licenseware
 
F1  Licenseware  have now joined in the Amos disk magazine family.  This
is  the  PD issue which aims to show you what they intend to give you in
the  following  issues,  the  first due on June 1st.  There are articles
covering  programming and hints and tips as well as a first hand insight
into F1 Licenseware which is growing at a steady pace.

APD613
easyslide v1.0
John A Kinsella
 
John  Kinsella  presents  his Easy Slide program which will allow you to
construct  a  slideshow of pics from an almost infinite number of disks.
John's Slideshow Construction Kit has been very popular, this looks like
an even easier version which can be used by anyone, even me!

APD616
AMOS DIALOGUE PROCEDURES
John A Kinsella
 
By  using  the  AMOS  Dialog  Procedures,  you  can  create  a number of
different  programs  which contain dialog boxes and requesters.  Each of
the  procedures are written so that they act like a normal Amos command,
this is to avoid confusion on how to use them.

If you require a certain dialog box or specific type of button, then it is
easy enough to simply create it using the procedures provided.

I am sure that this will be very useful to many Amos users who want to
maketheir programs look more professional.

APD617
Totally Amos Progs 6
TA Readers
This  is  the  sixth collection of programs sent in to Totally Amos.  It
contains  programs  from  the past few issues as well as some which were
too big to put on the magazine.
Contributors:   Tony  Vecqueray,  Paul  Bartlett, Jack Williams, Malcolm
Lavery, Chris Evans, Len Tucker
Wood_Lep.amos, examples of animating and controlling bobs.                    
TimesTable.AMOS, a tables tester for the youngsters.                  
Rainbow _Writer, a new rainbow editor with plenty of examples.
Crossword_Maker, design your own crosswords
ColorCycleTitling, GraphicalWindows, TwilightScroll, tutorial programs
The  following are procedures which can be used in place of the commands
supplied  with  certain  Amos  extensions, many work on Easy Amos, which
does not support extensions.
  banktostring,  bheight, bwidth, duck.abk, fileof, filesize, icons.abk,
iheight,  iwidth,  listbobs,  multino,  multiyes,  pathof, printerstate,
range, shuffle, stringtobank, text.asc, xhotspot, yhotspot.

APD681
Lateral Quizes
Dr John Foley
 
John the Doc has sent us in the latest in his collection of Lateral
thinking quizzes which should keep you going for a while! 
Also on the disk is a maths test program which will help kids brush up
on their numbers.

APD620
Totally Amos Progs 7
TA Readers
 
Another collection of TA goodies for you to disect!
PRO  ONLY, Ball Sprites 3*8, Bounding Box, Cycle Gadgets, Division Using
MOD,  Dot  Cube,  Pixelise,  Silhouette,  Small  Ball  Sprites,  Vector,
Vertical Text, WireFrame Cube.
WS WHITE- Examplloader2.   DR JOHN FOLEY- Quiz 20
AARON  MCCORMICK  Colourful  Demo,  Fantastic  Flight,  Spinning  Cubes,
Spinning  Words,  The  Awesome  Water  Eel, Wavy Scroller, Wibbly Wobbly
World
NICK  SIMPSON  Sine  Precalc,  The following need turbo1.9 Compiled Sine
Bobs, Fast Plotflag, Turbo1 Sine, Turbo2 sine
LEE BAMBER  4PlrAdapter, BamberFadeIn, Ninja,                       
MALCOLM  LAVERY  Zone  Editor, Brightest, Darkest, Draw Grid, EasyAmos &
Amos  Interface,  Hex  Buttons, Interface Button Demo, Lens effect, Lens
effect 2, Lens effect 3, Multi Effect Text, New Look Menu, Screen Copy &
Bob 1, Screen Copy & Scroll, Text & Number Icons, Vertical text.
MICHELE BERIONNE  atoms.   PHIL RICHMOND  Psychic Test, Revelation

APD621
Amos Progs #46
Various
 
 EqnSolver - solves equations                 

 Harvey's_çollection- Back chat, kingdom and Catch Phrase

 TAD - The Amos Department, a graphics manipulation program

 From  Steven_Mortimer  -  
3d_Cosign,      3d_Tangent,     AlphasLastIntro,        AnotherIntro,
A_Smooth_Multiple_scroller,     Interupt_MCstars,       MachineCodeStars,
OS_controll,    Scrolly_up_text,SlideText,              Smooth_Scrollers, 
Squares,        Steller_Resque, TextPrint,              VecMorphBOBs.

APD628
Amos Progs #47

 
Naval Battle by Michele Berione is a version of the old Battleships game
It  is  beatable,  but  can  give  you a hard game!  Air Hockey is a two
player hockey game, simple, but playable.  Blackjack is the classic card
game.  Abase is a very nice database found on a bullitin board.  Finally
Clouds  is  a  cloud  generator  which gives excellent screens of fluffy
cloud patterns which are always useful for backdrops.

APD636
AMOS PROGS #48

 
 A_Mayfield  Birdsong.AMOS.  Program shows picture of a bird accompanied
by various sfx's.

John_Kinsella  AMOS_Help accessory.  This program gives on-line help for
Amos.

Mal  Lavery  KARATE_MAN_BOB  -  How  to  use  a character which has been
constructed   fron   a   couple  of  different  bobs.   SIMPLE_TILE_GAME
MORE_SOURC_CODE  includes ISOMETRIC_GAME_EXAMPLE and MENTAL MEN which is
a  wacky little game.  PALETTE_EDITOR LOTTERY_PREDICTER If you win using
this, remember Malcolm!!!  
 
APD637 
AMOS PROGS #49

 
Malcolm_Lavery  HOOVER_TEXT  &  HOOVER_TEXT_OUTWARD 2 effects which give
you  Star  Wars like text scrolling.  Wait a while as it does not appear
instantly!
MESS_UP_IFFY Scrambles up an .iff picture.
NEW_SPEAK_DOC Nothing to do with any medical gentleman, this prog will
read a text file!
TEXT_OVER_PICTURE as it suggests, will overlay text on a picture.           

S_Hargreaves   File_Requestor an alternative to the standard one.
Shrink_Screen_Cls, shrink_swap_cls - screen effects

John_the_doc
Lateral Quizzes 21-23. Play Catchphrase with Amos!

APD638
Amossible
Mark Wickson
 
A `magazine' which is read by loading articles into the Amos editor
which includes lots of working examples on using Amos.
BEGINNERSBITS   AMOSPROMUSIC,  BAR,  BASICVARIABLES,  EQUAL,  FADETORED,
JOYSTICKS,   LOOPY,   PICLOAD,  SCREENS,  SPRITEFIX,  STRINGS,  SUBROUT,
VARIABLES,

 NEWSTUFF  BOUNCEBALL,  CIRCLEMOVE,  DATATHING,  DATATHING2, DATATHING3,
DATATHING4,    INPUT1,   INPUT2,   IRONARMS,   JOYSTICKS1,   JOYSTICKS2,
JOYSTICKS3, LIGHTPSYCHOS, WURBLES

 GENERALSTUFF  AMAL,  BOUNCEBOB,  CIRCLECLEAR,  DISKFREEMEM, DROPALIENS,
GORF,  ICONSDATA,  INVADERS,  LOTTOMONEY,  MATHSMOVER,  MOUSEY,  POINTY,
SAMPLEPLAYER, SCREENZONES1, SCREENZONES2, SCROLLSCREEN, TRIGMOVE, XTYPE,

and more.....

          ===================== AMOS UTILITIES ==============

APD001
game music creator


This  is  a  powerful  and easy to use utility that allows you to create
musical   tunes.   Uses  all  four  channels  and  comes  complete  with
documentation.   Use  the GMC-to-AMOS convert program to alter a 'block'
of  music  data  and  then  play  it  back  in AMOS using a simple MUSIC
command.

APD007
virusx + others


More  utilities  have  been added to this disc along with VirusX version
4.1.   This  disc  is  a  useful  addition to any AMOS or non-AMOS users
collection.

APD031
Screen Designer
James Robert Crosby

The  idea  of  this  program  is to allow AMOS users to create large IFF
screens  which  can be loaded into any of their own programs.  This disc
also  contains  lots  of other routines and utilities to load into AMOS,
including Arc Angel's music player.

APD035
archivist
steven harrison

This  is a small data storage program which will store any data that you
have  as  a  sequential  file  on  disc.  Options include add to a file,
change any record, see the directory of any drive, edit a record, delete
a  file,  view  records  etc.   Excellent  help  is available within the
program.

APD036
Amos Update Disc 1.36
Europress

THE  CURRENT VERSION ON THIS DISC IS v1.36.  If you have AMOS it is very
important  that  you  use  the latest version whenever possible.  If any
futher  updates  are made to AMOS then you can return this disc with 75p
to get the new updates when they become available.  Please note that the
update  service  does  NOT apply to discs supplied by Europress or Amiga
Format,  only  those supplied by AMOS PDL.  Compiler is now also updated
to  1.36,  see disk APD373.  AMOS PRO is on its second update, V1.12 is
now available as APD466.

APD052
F.R.U.
A.H. meek

Forms  Really  Unlimited is a program that lets you design forms for any
purpose.   It  is  very  easy to use, contains some sample forms and has
plenty of documentation to read through.

APD063
hack demo creator

The   HACK  MAGIC  DIGITAL  DEMO  CREATOR  makes  demo  producing  easy.
Basically  all  the  hard work is done for you and all you have to do is
add your music and a scrolly message.

APD076
Rainbow Warrior
Martyn Brown

There is full documentation on this disc.  Rainbow Warrior gives you the
opportunity to "paint" with the copper/rainbows and save them for direct
inclusion  in your own programs.  The program can output ASCII blocks so
they  can  be  merged  directly  into AMOS programs.  Rainbow Warrior is
written  in  AMOS  so  users can adapt, mix and merge their own stuff in
there  too.   The  program also outputs data for K-Seka, Devpac, Binary,
Decimal, Hex and in its own formats.  The disc also contains some of the
best AMOS utilities i.e.  soundtracker converter, squash-a-bob.  There's
even  a  database  "BOMBASE"  on  the disc.  This disc is a must for all
serious users.

APD083
Amos Paint V3.7
Jounii Poullnen

Works  well with 1/2 meg but 1 meg is recommended.  There are 2 versions
of  AMOS-Paint, PAL and NTSC.  Features:  2-64 colours (you can load HAM
pictures), easy to use interface with automatic menu hiding, full screen
painting, smooth Real-Time Auto-Scrolling on Super Bitmaps, can save and
load both IFF and SPACKed files, colour cycling using SHIFT UP and SHIFT
DOWN, all normal painting tools and a range of painting modes.

APD116
jpm sound utilities
jpm sound

The music on this disc is copyright JPM SOUND.  Included on this disc is
MED  2.13 which seems to be attracting more and more users; particularly
as you can save your creations as Soundtracker modules.

APD119
electrocad demo


I  don't  know much about this sort of program so I asked Paul of NBS to
describe  this  disc.  (Thanks Paul.) This is just a working demo of the
program.  If you want the full version then you must contact the author.
Full  details  on the disc.  The program is a CAD tool to draw schematic
circuit  diagrams.   On  loading the main program you are presented with
the  full  screen for drawing lines in much the same way as in other CAD
packages  but  at  the  top  of  the screen there are icons representing
different  electronic  components  (approx.  100).  You can use these in
your drawings.  A lot of work has gone into this program, and expansions
are  planned  for  additional  custom libraries, and for a PCB designer.
Demonstrates that AMOS is not just for programming games.

APD134
spectrapaint v3.1
twilight software

This  is  a  very  nice  painting  package that requires one megabyte of
memory to run.

APD161
Program Searcher
Roger Martensson

Type  in the name of a program and after a while the information appears
on  the  screen.   You  can find out if a program has used any C source.
There  are  3  search  options:   normal,  disc and option search.  Full
documentation is on the disc.  Also on the disc is a neat little demo by
the same programmer.

APD163
Sample Editor V1.2
S. Griffiths

Contains  full  documentation  to the Sample Editor.  Disc also contains
Hexdump,  Sample  Player  to  listen to samples, Colour It a program for
colouring pictures and Move It, a simple game.

APD176
database master
stephen evans

This   is   a   database  that  requires  one  megabyte  to  run.   Full
documentation is included on the disc.

APD177
amos programs
j. kinsella

Full documentation is included on the disc.  Contains AMOS Copy which is
a  utility  to copy files from one disc to another.  INTERLACE CONVERTOR
is  a  program  to  convert an IFF picture into an AMOS bank so that the
program INTERLACE_BVIEW can show the file as an interlace picture.  Also
on  the  disc  are  a  couple  of music players by the same author.  All
programs can be used from a menu.

APD215
Fractals Workshop
B. J. Hills

Contains two readme files the first of which recommends some good titles
of  books on fractals and the second of which explains what the programs
on  the  disc do.  The disc contains slideshows on MandelBrots and Julia
Sets  and also generators for both.  A "must have" if you are interested
in fractals.

APD229
Amos Multipaint 2.0
Markus Nimtz

Usual  paint  package  facilities.   Press "Q" for help whilst using the
program.  Disc contains some pictures created using the package.

APD238
A. i. m.
Martin Donnelly

AMOS  IMAGE  MANIPULATOR  is a simple program based on Pixmate.  You can
use  it  to smear your picture to give it a sort of D-Paint smooth look.
Pixelize  your  picture,  change  the colour to give red, blue, green or
grey  scales.   Flip  the  screen horizontally or vertically.  Shift the
colours  up  and down, splatter them, shrink the screen or erase part of
it.  Disc contains examples.  Documentation can be read from Workbench.

APD246
Niall 3.0 Demo
Mat Peck

This  version  of  Niall is shareware.  Some of the facilities have been
disabled.  You can buy the full version from Mat if you register.  NIALL
stands  for  Non-Intelligent  AMOS  Language Learner.  This version is a
vast  improvement  on  the  previous PD program both in presentation and
ease  of  use.   You  can  have  great  fun  trying to converse with the
computer.   There  are  also some source code programs on the disc which
require AMOS to run.

APD257
deluxe labeller
delboy dodson

Very  well  presented  program for generating inlay cards for cassettes.
The  program  is  icon  driven  and the default printer is set to Epson.
There  is  an  option  to  set  it  up  to suit your printer.  Excellent
utility.   Also  on  the  disc  for AMOS users is oodles of source code.
EDITOBJ, SHOWOBJ, JOURNAL, ADDRESS-BOOK and MEGABASE.  Thanks to all the
programmers  who  contributed  to  the  disc.  Please note some of these
programs,  written  in  early versions of AMOS, might not work correctly
under the latest version.  Try to change them to make them work.

APD269
sketch-a-tune
colin naylar

This is a music creator using a method not unlike SONIX.  By this I mean
that you point onto the staves and click where you want your notes so it
is  just  like  writing  a  piece  of  music.  There are lots of options
including save, load and erase note etc.  There are also some samples of
music on the disc.

APD279
Font Display

This  is  quite  a  useful  program  to display all the fonts on a disc.
Although the program itself is not very complex the disc has been filled
to  the  top  with  fonts  for you to use - most of which are very nice.
Even  if  you don't want the program this disc might be worth buying for
the fonts alone.

APD287
palette master

Create  colour  palettes  easily  with this program.  You can choose the
number  of colours from 2 to 32.  You can spread, load, save as an ASCII
file  for  inclusion  in  your  programs and select ranges amongst other
things.   You  can  load palettes from IFF pictures also.  A very useful
program.

APD302
paint 1.16

This  is  a  very  nice attempt at writing a quality painting program in
AMOS.   Unlike  most  other  painting programs that have been put in the
Public  Domain  this one does not operate or resemble Deluxe Paint alot.
This  different  way of operating may not suit some people but this is a
very  complete  program  with lots of options.  Not as complex as DPaint
though!

APD305
TDC v1.1


THE  DEMO  CREATOR  v1.1.  This disc contains a demo version of The Demo
Creator  along  with  some  programs to aid the production of the demos.
Rainbow Warrior to create those lovely copper bars, Soundtracker to Amos
convertor  to  convert music to .ABK files and a Text File Viewer so you
can view the document files for the program.

APD306
pic play v2


THIS  PROGRAM  IS  COMPILED.   Also on this disc, however, is a crunched
version of the AMOS program that you can uncrunch with PowerPacker.  Pic
Play  is basically a slideshow utility for showing pictures and music at
the  same  time.  Full instructions are included on the disc to help you
but the program is easy to use.

APD308
Coder V3.0
Andrew Elia

This  is  a well presented utility to enable you to encode files so that
only  people  with  the  correct  code  can  read  them.  There are full
instructions  on the disc.  You can use this program to code text files,
programs,  pictures  etc.   There is also a copper maker, zone maker and
vector  virus  killer  on the disc.  Program updated to V3.0, July 1992.
Now super fast!

APD312
Lc24 Fonts Demo
Jeff Tullin

This  is a demo of a Deja-Vu Professional Software title by Jeff Tullin.
It  is  a  demo of his 24 pin printer font installation program to allow
you  to  use  new  fonts  in  your printer.  Also on the disc is an AMOS
system font editor and a new system font.  Try before you buy!

APD317
Banker
Chris Hurst

Banker  is  a  collection of four programs.  Sonic Blast - a simple .ABK
music  player, Screen Packer - load an IFF picture and save it as a .ABK
file,  SBV - a simple sprite bank viewer and Sample Ripper - take sample
banks  and  save  them  as  binary  files to load into Sample Bank Maker
(supplied with AMOS).  Nice collection of small programs.

APD322
Boot Utilities
Andrew Elia

This  is  a collection of six boot utilities for virus protection.  They
have  all  been written in AMOS and full instructions are included.  You
will need a Virus program that saves bootblocks as files on discs before
these programs can analyse them.

APD363
Family History Database 1.01


This  is a program that will be of use to those interested in geneology.
Now  you  can  keep  a record of your family tree on disc, and with this
latest version of Family History Database yu can print out your records.
There  is  also a 1mb database on the disc, look for PFDB.  The previous
version APD132, has now been withdrawn.

APD367
Word Power V1.1
Steven Rennocks

This  rogram  will  be  very  useful  to  people who need to check their
spelling  before  printing  letters etc .  Thereis a dictionary included
which  has over 3700 words already entered, but these can be added to as
needed  to  produce  an  even  better choice of words for the program to
check, any spell checker can only find mis-spelt words if it 'knows' the
word.   The  program  can also analyse words and help you solve anagrams
and  crosswords.  There is a load/save facility for you to save your own
dictionary   entries.    Steven  challenges  users  to  send  in  larger
dictionaries  and also foreign language dictonary files.  Full documents
are on the disc.  This is a shareware program.

APD373
Amos Compiler 1.36 Update
Europress Software

This  disk  will  update  your Compiler to match the latest Amos (1.36).
This  disk  is also updatable, should further versions become available.
This service costs 75p for disks supplied by Amos PDL.  See also APD36,
AMOS 1.36 Update and APD466, AMOS PRO V1.12.

APD397
My Music Machine
Andy Paul

This is a program that allows the user to play tunes on your Amiga, just
for  fun!   The  screen  display  is  very good and is set out like your
average  electronic  keyboard.   It has a good choice of instruments and
rhythms  and  you  have  quite  a wide variety of options as the way the
program  is set up - ie the rhythm volume and rate, whether or not you'd
like  the  note  letters  displayed  on the keyboard display and even if
you'd  like  a  finger to press the notes for you!  The actual notes are
played  using  the Amiga's keyboard as with Sound Tracker, and as you do
so,  the  finger obediently moves up and down the keys.  This is one for
the kids or musical novices to have a go with.

APD400
Easy Ramos Disk
With Europress' Permission

It  has come to our notice that Easy Amos does not come with RAMOS which
means that if you write a program in Easy Amos, it cannot be made to run
independently  of  Easy  Amos.   This  disk contains the Amos 1.34 Ramos
which  we  have  tested  with Easy Amos programs.  If you name your file
AUTOEXEC.AMOS,  then you need not alter the startup sequence on the Easy
Ramos  disk.   The  only  thing  you will lose is Easy Amos' pretty file
requestor  which  reverts  to  the  standard  Amos one.  A must for Easy
Amos'ers,  remember,  if  you  give  a  copy of Easy Amos away with your
program, it is piracy!!!!  Full Docs included.

APD403
Tony Swanwick Utilities
Tony Swanwick

The  utilities  on  this  disk  are supplied as both Compiled and source
programs  which  will  work  on  Amos  V1.3  and  above.  There are four
programs  on  the  disk,  all  of  which  will be useful to programmers.
Appear.Amos  -  experiment  with  the appear command variables using the
interactive keypad.  Vey professionally presented.  FileEd.Amos- An Amos
clone  of  NewZap  which  lets  you directly alter bites within a loaded
file.  GrabBOB.Amos - As the name suggests you can grab Sprites and Bobs
from  any  IFF  file  and  save them as an Amos Sprite Bank.  Fully menu
driven  with  advanced  features.   GrabIFF.Amos  -  Save  disk space by
cutting  down  your IFF file pictures to their minimum size by cutting a
rectangular section out of a larger screen and saving it.

APD425
AmPP2
M. Burbidge

This  is  an Art Package, in fact the title stands for The Amos Painting
Package.   According  to  the  disk label it does....  sketch, linedraw,
ray,  circle,  ellipse,  filled circle, filled ellipse, triangle, filled
triangle,  parallelogram,  filled  parallelogram,  box, filled box, cut,
paste,  spray,  mix, text, colourfill, cycle and grid.  Yes all that and
more  was  on  the  label!   The  disk also contains AmPP0.9 Convformat.
Sourcecode included.

APD442
Slideshow Constuction V2
John Kinsella

This  handy  ute  will  allow  you  to  put  together a slideshow of IFF
screens.    It   will  even  allow  you  to  use  several  disks.   Full
instructions and sample pics on the disk.

APD454
U-tilities #1
Tony Swanwick

This  disk  contains  two  very  useful  utilities  - U-File and U-Zone.
U-File  is a highly interactive file byte editor which is packed full of
features  for  modifying  any  Amiga-Dos  file.   U-Zone  this is a Zone
grabber which is easy to use.  You only have to load an .iff picture and
draw  in the zones with the mouse pointer, the data is then saved out as
an  ascii  file.  Full docs are on the disk, in fact full manuals are on
the  disk,  nothing  has  been left to doubt on this very professionally
presented disk.

APD457
Volber's Utes
Volber Stepprath

Volber  has  sent in useful disks in the past, this is his best yet!  It
has  a  cli  type  program,  AmosCopy  which  will do your file and disk
copying,  Q4mat  which is a Quick Format utility and a directory full of
useful Amos Tips.  This disk is a MUST.

APD466
Amos Pro V1.12 Update
Europress

Amos  Pro  is  now  on its second update at version V1.12.  It was found
that some machines were locking up the system with V1.11, but apparently
it  is  now OK.  If you have not updated Pro at all since you bought it,
it  is vital that you do so as lots of bugs have been fixed.  Hard drive
users  will  have to update on floppy and thehn put the new version back
onto HD.

APD469
Grab V3
David May

This  disk  has a Compiled as well as a source version of this very good
Sprite/icon  grabber.   It  will cut out sprites from an .iff screen for
you  to save as a bank.  Other features include cut and paste and delete
bank.  Sample .iff screen and demo pacman game included for you to use.

APD481
Amos C.A.T. V3.7
Philip Richmond

This  program's  full  title  is  Amos Creative Adventure Toolkit.  This
Version, 3.7, needs Amos to run, while the latest version available from
Deja  Vu  Software  is a stand alone program which can be used by anyone
with  an  Amiga.   Basically,  this  program  will  allow  you to create
graphical  or  text  adventures.  If your coding ability is limited, but
you  long  to  write  an  adventure,  text  or graphical, then this is a
program  which  will  allow  you  to  do so.  An example of an adventure
written  with  CAT  is Gory Story, APD418, which was written by Phil to
show  what  Amos  CAT  could  do.  Well recommended, info on Licenseware
version is included on the disk.

APD482
Font X
Neil Wright

This  program  will  allow  you  to  design  and edit fonts using a very
friendly  user  interface.   Neat presentation for what I feel will be a
very useful utility.

APD497
Disk Register V1.20
Pal Loberg

This  is  a  very nice looking database which stores all the information
about  your  collection  of disks.  Well laid out and easy to use.  This
program comes from Norway and includes full instructions.

APD501
tele title 2 (lowres)




APD502
Wedding
Tom Laird

This  is  a video titling program which was written to add the finishing
touches  to  a wedding video, but by altering the text and graphics, you
can adapt it to any event.  There are ample instructions on the disk and
even  pictures  of  how  to connect up all your electrical equipment!  I
think  that  this will be very interesting to anyone who wants to dabble
in video productions.

APD588
Disk Filer
From Australia

This is a database which will keep a record of your disks.

APD589
Programmers WB Tool
From Australia

A disk which could be useful for Amos programmers.
APWT-INSTALLER.AMOS   APWT_C.AMOS  APWT_N.AMOS
Sneak-Preview         SQUASH_PROCEDURES.AMOS

APD590
Family History Database
Michael Tate

This  is  the  latest  PD version (v2.2f) of this popular database which
will keep the records of your ancestors in a tidy form.

APD611
Liberator Extras
Donald Cameron

This disk is a companion to the Liberator extension and so you will need
this extension to make use of it..

APD615
midimagix
Alex Magney

This  program needs a midi interface and midi instrument to work, so, we
have  not been able to test itfor ourselves, although we are waiting for
a  report  from some one who has the right hardware.  It was written for
an  A  level  Project,  hopefully it will help Alex to get a good grade!
All  I can say about the program is that when it loads, you get a screen
where  you  can set your preferences for your keyboard.  Apparently, the
graphics change when you select different voices on the midi instrument.
More about this program as soon as we get it!  

APD630
Fractastic
J Houseley

This  is a new fractal generator which will produce patterns which could
be used as backdrops etc.  It has many options so that you can configure
it  to  produce patterns in different ways and a palette changer so that
you  can  create  subtle  pictures  in  hues  of the same colour or mind
blowing  flourescent patterns!  Also on the disk is a program which will
catalogue  the  contents of a disk and save them to disk to be used as a
quick  reference.  The catalogue created can then be viewed fron an icon
in Workbench.  An example is on the disk.  To fill up the disk, there is
also  a  font  reader  which  will  list  all the fonts available in the
presently assigned workbench source.  A good value disk.

APD631
WAC 1
Paul Gumsley

This is the PD issue of one of the latest Amos Magazines. Try it out,
then if you are a member of Totally Amos, you will be able to claim a
discount on future issues.

Includes lots of articles, hints, tips and reviews etc.

   ============== COMPILED & NON-AMOS ANIMS & DEMOS=================

GPD012
Fillet The Fish

 
This  is  a  very  funny cartoon on a disc featuring Fillet the Fish.  I
won't  give  the story away as it would spoil it.  The way this disc has
been produced is very good and the animation is brilliant.  Quite a long
story.   There  is  also  a  cameo  appearance  by Puggs (from the other
cartoon-on-disc Puggs In Space).

GPD033
Puggs In Space

 
This  is extremely funny.  It is basically an animated cartoon on a disc
but  is  very,  very, very long!  It follows the adventures of Puggs who
lands  on  Earth  and  gets  in  all sorts of trouble.  The animation is
superb  (especially when he electrocutes himself).  This disc is so good
you will want to play it over and over again.

GPD058
3D Demo

 
A  1  megabyte Real 3D demo (ray traced in HAM mode) featuring the words
Real Pinball and some balls bobbing up and down in water.  The animation
and the effect achieved in it are very impressive.

GPD061
Harlequin Demo

 
Two  versions  of this demo are on the disc - a 1 megabyte version and a
1/2  megabyte version.  Basically it is the word Harlequin on the screen
many  times  in different colours and the screen rotates.  Not extremely
spectacular.

GPD072
Virtual Worlds

 
This  is a very nice 3D demo featuuring 3D spheres.  Very smooth vectors
with  good,  realistic  movements.  Includes a 3D Poi-Poi demo (remember
the  demo).  2nd part is a story with fantastic graphics and 3D effects.
Very long demo with nice graphics and music.

GPD134
The Punishment
Syntex
 
This  Syntex  demo  has been around for a while, so I hear, and now it's
here for you all.  It is, of course of a very high standard and features
superb  animations  and  effects.  A must for Syntex Fans.  Written with
Amos, no source.

GPD136
Megademo 7
Fanatix

Please  note,  this is a 3 disk production, you must order GPD137 & 138
as  well.   This  Demo is in this General section as it does not contain
source  code although it was written with Amos.  Fanatix have provided a
wealth  of  demos  showing  lots  of effects from scrollers to real time
plasma  screens.  Choice of which to view is made by moving the joystick
up  and  down the list.  If you have just 1 meg of memory, then you must
disable  your second drive, if you have one.  For those with 2+ meg, 2nd
drive is accepted.

GPD147
Electronic Cad Demo
Derek Pell
 
This  demo  replaces all previous E-cad and Protyper demos.  It contains
the new price list.

GPD148
Cyclic
Jamez Newcombe
 
This  is  a  light show demo which is best viewed in the dark to capture
the  best  effect.   It  does  come  with a health warning, serious, the
flashing  lights  can  trigger fits in people who are affected by bright
lights.   No source, but a very effective display nevertheless, from the
author of Cyad and Cyadonia.

GPD149
System Disorder
Fanatix
 
This  is  the latest demo from FANATIX.  All the coding was done by Jag.
It  is,  as  usual,  of  a  high  standard and contains some interesting
routines  for  you  to  look  at  and try to emulate.  The inter-section
screen  rolls  on  and off and the commentary is in the form of a circle
scroll.   There are yin yangs flying around, a wavy rotating bar , ghost
vectors,  3-D filled vectors, (no Amos 3-D) more bobs and an interesting
scroll  effect.   As  well  as  this  there  is  a coppersplit bob and a
transparent  light  sourced cube.  All this is topped off by the credits
and messages.  By the way, it's reset protected, so you have to turn off
your Amiga when you've finished watching the demo!  Good value for money
- lots of things to watch - and all on one disk!

GPD153
Fumble Demo
Frederic Calendini
 
This  is  the first demo from a new French demo crew.  They have lots to
look  at  in  this demo which is really very good.  The action is smooth
and  there  are plenty of routines which British crews will try to beat,
I'm  sure!   My Amiga has 2 meg, but I still had to disable Df1:  to get
this to run!  Should not be a problem on 600's or Plus's.

GPD156
Wonderland Demo
Zirus
 
A new demo from Paul Harthen.  A great demo to get you thinking "How did
he do that?"

GPD161
Vectors R Us Christmas Pack
Fanatix
 
This  is  the  final  demo from Fanatix.  This is a superb demo from the
boys.   It  is  really  smooth and has some fantastic effects for you to
look  and  marvel  at.   We#re sorry to see the end of Fanatix, but wish
them luck in the future.

GPD169
Hysteria
Grafic Reality
 
A  new demo from Grafic reality.  It's nicely done with some interesting
effects  which  may  not be original, but nevertheless are worth looking
at.

GPD171
GPD172
The Intruder
Syntex
 
This  is  a  2  disk demo from Syntex sent to us by a French PD Library.
Syntex  have  apparently  turned  to  Assembler for most of their recent
demos,  which could explain why we don't get them direct any more.  Kill
df1:  to run this demo.

GPD173
Mutants Dreams
Syntex
 
A single disk demo from the Famous French crew.

GPD174
We Are The Lamers
Syntex
 
Good  demo  from  Syntex,  nevertheless  a  mickey take of 'lesser' demo
crews!

GPD207
GPD208
Megademo 8
Fanatix
 
Fanatix  have  revived themselves and are now back in action on the Amos
Demo  scene!   This  is  their  comeback production and contains lots of
routines  which  you  can try to emulate in your own demos.  THIS IS A 2
DISK DEMO, ORDER GPD207 AND 208 (4.00p)

GPD215
Substance Demo
Shockwave/Fanatix
 
This  demo  was  produced by Shockwave as a Fanatix release.  It has the
usual  high  standard of effects expected from this group.  Look out for
Nick's routines in TA12 and onwards!

GPD214
Freestyle
Icky
 
This  is  the first demo from Karl Roberts, Icky.  and contains a wealth
of  new  effects for you to look at.  I'm told that if you would like to
know  how  a  particular routine was created, then all you have to do is
contact Karl at the address on the disk and he will help out.  This disk
is very full!

GPD228
Demos & Game
From Australia
 
  Headstrong Demo, Invoice Demo, Pacman. Two demos and a game.

GPD237
Classified Demo
Ramses
 
French  Demo,  very  stylish  demo  from  this  French  group  which has
impressed  Cubic  enough  to write a review of it for Totally Amos Issue
15!

GPD238
Another Boring Year
Syntex
 
Syntex are still alive and producing Demos! This one is as impressive as
ever, but has everyone wondering if it is done in pure Amos!

GPD250
BICC
Bill Tribble
 
The  program  on this disk is properly named Bill's Magic Colour Cycler.
It's  a  series of coloured patterns which change and gyrate in the form
of  a  slideshow.   It's something you could use as disco lights!  There
are  options  to  adjust  brightness  etc  to make it blend in with your
colour scheme if you so wish.  The comment on the disk label says `Don't
leave earth without it!' - As if I would!  

     ========== EDUCATIONAL - COMPILED AMOS & NON-AMOS ============

GPD022
Education 1

 
There are 5 programs on this disc.  GERMAN - a program designed to teach
the  basics of the German language, SPTOY - a program that lets you play
around  with  the  Amiga's voice synthesiser, LEX - performs analysis of
text files in various ways, TUTOR - a program to help you remember words
and  phrases  etc.  and STUDY - a card file program to help you remember
questions and answers.  Plus users please note:- Load Via workbench.

GPD023
Education 2

 
Another 5 education programs.  CAPITALS - helps you remember place names
in  America!,  GLOBE  -  creates and spins a globe on screen, ELEMENTS -
information  on  the  periodic  table of elements, DRAWMAP - draws world
maps  and globes and GEOTIME - shows different times in varying parts of
the world.  Plus users please note:- Load Via workbench.

GPD024
Education 3

 
There  are  an  amazing  9  programs  on  this  disc.   EVO  -  displays
information  and  maps  on  the  evolution  of man, FORMULA - creates 3D
graphs from formula that you put in, CLOUD - creates 'fractal surfaces',
EVOLUTION - shows bug evolution and adaption, FUNC2D - draws graphs from
equasions,  WORM  - displays worms on the screen moving around!, UNITS -
convert  one unit into another, CALCKEY - pop-up screen calculator, CALC
-  pop-up  scientific  calculator.   Plus  users  please note:- Load Via
workbench.

GPD025
Education 4

 
Four   more   education/utility  programs.   THE  WEATHER  -  calculates
sunrise/sunset  and  forecasts  the weather, GRAVSIM - simulates planets
spinning,  GRAVITY  WELL - simulates the motion of 20 bodies in Newton's
universe  and  AIRFOIL - calculates and simulates air flow over objects.
Plus users please note:- Load Via workbench.

GPD026
Education 5

 
Another  5  top  quality  programs.   WORLD  DATA  BANK - calculates and
displays  world  maps  with countries etc., PLOT - displays 3D graphs in
multi-colour,  WAVEMAKER  -  generates  sinewaves etc., CALENDAR - makes
calendars for any year - prints out also, SHERLOCK - examines text files
and  calculates  the probability that they are by the same author.  Plus
users please note:- Load Via workbench.

GPD112
Kidspaint
Paul Dodd
 
This  is  a  kiddies art package giving plenty of colours and facilities
for  kids  to  draw  and  colour  pictures.   There is speech throughout
telling the child what colour he/she has selected and what tool they are
using.  This proram is Shareware.

GPD176
Dynamite Sums/ Amos Base
From Australia
 
Complete  the sums before the dynamite explodes!  The second prog on the
disk is a database.

GPD249
ROME
Michael J Wilson
 
This is a very nice shareware disk which will inform you about Roman
life. This disk deals with Architecture and entertainment and is packed
with facts and pictures. It is very informative and if you choose to
register you will get the full version which includes a self test
feature.
This is a very interesting way of learning History.


            ======== COMPILED AMOS & NON-AMOS GAMES =======


GPD001
Llamatron

 
There  are  two  versions  of  this  Jeff  Minter game on the disc - a 1
megabyte version and a 1/2 megabyte version.  You basically must control
your  Llama  and  shoot at everything that appears to gain access to the
next level.  You can collect goats for extra power.  Nice game with lots
of flashing colours.

GPD002
Assortment

 
This disc contains a wide selection of programs:  Biorhythm - life cycle
program,  Starchart  -  calculates star positions in the sky, Conquest -
star wars game, Shanghai - old Chinese tiles game, Cycles - light cycles
game, Othello - board game, Rock Slide - Boulderdash style game and Life
3D  -  simulates  living  cells.   Plus  users  please  note:-  Load Via
workbench.

GPD003
Games

 
Four  games  on  this disc:  Peter's Quest - A fairly good platform game
with  sampled  sound  and  nice  large  graphics, Shoot Out - High speed
shoot-em-up,  YachtC - computer version of the popular game and TrainSet
-  build a train track and watch the trains go round!  Plus users please
note:-All but train set will load from the Cli.

GPD004
Games

 
Another  5  different games on this dsic:  Billiards - simple version of
billiards,  Drip  -  fantastic  graphics and sound in a Pipe Mania style
game,  Chess  -  a  good  version  of chess (play against the computer),
Nakamoto  - simple platform game, Tontestel - strange ice-skating Gnomes
game.   Plus  users  please  note:-Billiards, Drip and nakamoto will run
from workbench.

GPD005
Seven Tiles
Alpha Flight
 
This  is a game not unlike the famous SpeedBall game.  The game features
great  graphics and music and fantastic, fast gameplay.  If you are into
games  then  theis disc is a must as this is a top quality Public Domain
game!

GPD013
Star Trek Game
Tobias Richter
 
Please  order  disk DV14 as well as this is a two disc set.  This is the
best  Star  Trek  game  to  appear  in  the  Public Domain.  It features
fantastic gameplay, great sampled sounds and brilliant graphics.  If you
are  a  Trekkie  or  like  space  games  then  get  this.   You won't be
dissapointed.

GPD017
Frantic Freddy

 
Very  nice platform game.  Guide Freddy, helping him to collect the pies
but  you  must  avoid the baddies at all costs.  Nice graphics and music
make this a must to add to your PD games collection.

GPD019
Battleforce

 
This  is  a very good role playing game which is set in variable terrain
between  warring  robots.   It  is  a  complex game and features lots of
possibilities  for  different  settings.  If you like role playing games
then I am sure you will enjoy playing this game.

GPD020
Rain

 
This disc contains Blizzard and some small pieces of music.  Blizzard is
a  very fast horizontal shoot-em-up not too different from Uridium (that
brings  back  memories).  The music on the disc is a collection of small
pieces  but  are  very  good  never the less.  There are 9 in all.  Plus
users please note:- Type exec start from Cli.

GPD021
Wraithed 1

 
This  disc  contains  two versions of Quiz Master, Genius 1 and Genius 2
editions.  Quiz Master is a simple quiz game like the ones found in Pubs
etc.   Also  on  the  disc  is  a fairly amuzing story about Crumpet the
Dwarf.

GPD028
Games

 
Three  games  on  this  disc:   PACMAN87  - not a bad version of PacMan,
RETALIATOR - a Shoot Em Up Construction Kit game (blast everything) nice
graphics,  SORRY!   -  computer  version  of the board game.  Plus users
please note:- Retaliator will load from workbench.

GPD030
Moria

 
This  is  a  very  complicated  role playing game that is extremely well
presented  but  takes  ages to complete.  You start off by building your
character  then wander around a village buying things and then make your
way into the caverns.  Very good game.

GPD031
Golden Fleece
Jim Macbrayne
 
This  is  a  fantastic  text only adventure.  Everything has had so much
detail put into it including the parser which is very good.  If you have
ever  played one of Jim's adventures you will know that there is no need
for  graphics  as everything is described so well and in so much detail.
If  you  are  an adventure buff then this is for you.  Plus users please
note:- Use from workbench, will work with perseverance.

GPD032
Holy Grail
Jum Macbrayne
 
This  is  another top quality adventure by Jim MacBrayne.  This time the
search is on for the Holy Grail.  Again there is no need for graphics as
everything  is  described  so  well  in the text.  The game is extremely
atmospheric and the humour in places is very good.  Again this is a must
for  adventure fans everywhere!  Plus users please note:- Will work from
workbench with perseverance

GPD034
Flashbier

 
Now  here's  a  game  based on an old idea but with a modern twist.  The
game is basically a BoulderDash clone but instead of collecting diamonds
you  must collect bottles of your favourite tipple!  The games music and
graphics  are  superb  and the gameplay itself is lightning fast.  There
are  lots  and  lots  of  levels to keep you amused for ages.  Game fan?
This is a must!

GPD036
Colossus

 
This  disc  contains the Colossus adventure and a very complex adventure
writer  that  is  in  no way suited to people not suited to the Amiga or
adventures.   It is not very easy to use.  The disc also includes a text
adventure called World.

GPD037
Megaball

 
Very  good  BreakOut  game with all the modern tweaks such as expandable
bat, lasers, slow up etc.  as well as some pitfalls such as compress bat
or  explode!   The  game  is  very  well  presented  with good music and
graphics.   I  know  many  versions of BreakOut have been programmed but
this one stands out from the rest.

GPD039
Chinese Checkers

 
This  is  a  brilliant  computerised version of the old Chinese Checkers
board  game.   Basically the board is a six pointed star and you have to
move  your  checkers over to the opposite side of the board first.  Very
enjoyable  game  to  either play against the computer or against 5 other
people.

GPD040
Board Games

 
There  are  three  popular  board  games that have been converted to the
Amiga.   The games are Klondike, Cleudo and Monopoly.  All the games are
very  good  copies  of their board game counterparts.  Plus users please
note:- Cludeo works from the Cli others need Amiga basic.

GPD041
Necronom Demo
Linel
 
The  disc contains a rolling demo of the forthcoming game by Linel.  The
demo  features  brilliant  sound  and  graphics  showing  how  good  the
scrolling  shoot  em up will be and it does look impressive.  Try before
you buy!

GPD042
Starfleet

 
StarFleet  is  a  simple  game written with the Shoot Em Up Construction
Kit.   It is basically a simple blast featuring some quite good graphics
but the game is not technically amazing!

GPD043
Mayhem

 
Very  professionally  presented disc featuring Mayhem.  Mayhem is a flip
screen  game  in  which you must guide your ship safely through caverns,
deactivating  doors  on  your  way etc.  The graphics and sound are very
good.  Also on the disc is a vector demo and instructions on playing the
game.

GPD044
Games

 
Five  great  games  on  this disc.  Breaker - another Breakout clone but
this  time  with  a nice level editor, Welltrix - this is a variation on
the  popular  game  Tetris but this time in 3D, China Challenge - remove
all  the tiles by matching pairs, Mechanoid - this is a spoof version of
asteroids  in  which you shoot faces and Quattro - a fairly nice version
of Tetris.

GPD045
Games

 
This disc contains three Shoot Em Up Construction Kit games.  WolfBane -
space shoot-em-up, 109 - World War II shoot-em-up, Death - another space
shoot-em-up.   It  must  be  said that the quality of these games is not
very good as SEUCK was not a very good package in the first place!

GPD046
Games

 
Five  classic  games  have  been  converted to the Amiga to make up this
disc.   The  games are Cleudo, Othello, Klondike, Cribbage and Canfield.
Quite a good collection of games.

GPD047
Wizzy's Quest

 
Whizzy's  quest  is  a  very  proffessional platform game featuring nice
graphics,  animation  and  sound.   The game is very nice to play and is
full  of  humour.  The disc is worth it for this game alone but there is
also a graphical adventure called Castle Of Doom on the disc which isn't
bad.

GPD048
Paranoid

 
There  are two games on this disc.  Metagalactic Llamas, a conversion of
a  Jeff  Minter  game, is a strange game where you have to shoot spiders
coming down from the top of the screen with your Llama!  Paranoid is yet
another Breakout game (when will it all end!) with a level editor.  This
is extremely fast.

GPD050
Hack

 
This  is a very old role playing game and the graphics aren't up to much
but  if  you are a fan of role playing games then you will love it as it
is very in-depth.  I have been playing it for ages and there are lots of
places to explore.  Even though this is old it is still very enjoyable.

GPD051
Games

 
There  are  nine  (yes  9)  games crammed onto this disc.  The games are
Number   Fumbler,  LadyBug,  Bug,  Paccy,  Galaxians,  Shootout,  Tetris
Metallica,  Pharaohs  Curse  and Cosmoroids.  Most of the games are very
well presented and all of them are very enjoyable.  This is an essential
games disc.

GPD052
Games

 
Three well presented old classic games on one disc all selectable from a
novel  menu.   The  games are:  REBOUND - a BreakOut game (how original)
with  a  level  editor  (played  horizonally instead of vertically which
makes  a  change, INVADERS - a nice game in the style of defender on the
old  Atari  console  and  GRIDRUNNER - another nice version of a classic
game.  Very fast.  Good games disc.

GPD057
Insiders Club

 
This  is  a Stockmarket game in which you have to make money and control
companies.  If money allows you can also visit the Insiders Club to gain
'inside'  information  to  help  you.   The  game  is Shareware and full
instructions  are  included on the disc.  Quite a good game.  Plus users
please note:  Will load from workbench.

GPD060
Games

 
Disc  containing four games:  WordPuzzle - word search game with lots of
different   searches   to   be   completed,   AirAce  -  well  presented
Shoot-Em-Up-Construction-Kit game with nice graphics, Mosaic - tile game
in  which  you  have  to  aim to connect colours as much as possible and
StopWatch - a timer with lap facility etc.

GPD063
War Game

 
This  War  Game simulates the Napoleonic War.  There are no graphics but
the  game  is highly detailed and is quite complex.  Good game but would
take a long time to complete.

GPD065
Games

 
8  games  on this packed disc.  Jumpy - Platform game with level editor,
King  -  card  game,  Raps - board game, FiveInALine-a Connect4 variant,
CRobots  -  a game based on 'C' programming, Death - shoot-em-up, SB - a
version  of  breakout and Tiny!  - a small screened workbench version of
Baseball!

GPD067
Games

 
This  disc  contains  3 different card games.  The games are Harp, Plait
and  Queens and are very well presented and easy to play.  There is also
a game called push on this disc which is not too unlike Pukadu.

GPD068
Block It!

 
A  weird  game this one.  You control a little character and you have to
shoot  different  type  of  blocks  at a square made up of these blocks,
getting  rid  of the same block type!  Sounds simple eh?  Well it is but
the  game  is  extremely playable and very addictive.  Nice presentation
also!

GPD075
Games

 
Eight  nice games on this disc:  Train Set - Build a track and watch the
trains  go  round,  Yawn!   - Put numbered tiles into the correct order,
World - Text adventure, Montana - Solitare card game, AmigaWorm - Nicely
presented version of a classic game, Pipeline - Like 'Pipemania' let the
oil  flow  through  the  pipes,  Bounce  -  Strange  game which involves
bouncing  into  crystals  and  Mines  - get through a minefield by using
co-ordinates.

GPD076
Games

 
Eleven  games  on  one disc (yes 11!):  Drip - fantastic game of rusting
pipes,  Bally  -  color  in  sections  of  the screen, YahZee - computer
version  of the classic game, TicTacToe - simple O's and X's game, Stepz
-  logic  game involving moving arrows around, Amoeba - great version of
invaders, Othello - good version of the old counters swapping game, Tron
-  light cycles, Chess - don't think this needs explaining, Tiles - good
version of Shanghai and Daleks - simple game of avoiding Daleks!

GPD077
Bits & Bats

 
A  bit  of  a  mixed  bag  this disc.  WonderSound - harmonic instrument
design  tool,  Swish - makes the screen float!, AmigaTration - match the
cards  in  this Amiga version of Concentration, Conquest - war simulator
similar  to Risk, CheatSheet - lots and lots of game cheats, SolitareX -
card game of Solitare, Memmon - shows memory available.  Nice collection
of programs.

GPD083
Larn 12.06

 
This  is  another old role playing game played and looking much the same
as  Hack.   The  graphics aren't too brilliant but the game is large and
complex  and  allows  for hours of playing.  If you like games like Hack
and Moria then you will probably love playing this game.

GPD087
Assassins 6

 
A  nice  collection  of  four  games:  Downhill Challenge - downhill ski
game,  PacMan87 - early version of Pacman, MetaGalactic Llamas - strange
Llama  shooting  game,  Welltrix  -  variation  along  the Tetris theme.
Although  most  of  the  games don't have stunning graphics they are all
highly addictive.

GPD088
Assassins 2

 
Six  top quality games all squeezed onto one disc!  Yes it's true!  Girl
Action  -  version  of  Galaxians, Missile Command - nice version of the
classic, Maze Game - guide yourself through a 3D maze, Invaders - need I
say  anything?,  Bally2  -  sequel to the screen painting game and Think
Ahead - a logic tile game.  Great presentation throughout, lots of fun.

GPD089
Assassins 1

 
Five  more  games  brought to you by Assassins.  Tanx - aim your missile
and  destroy  the  opponents tank, Rollerpede - very nice version of the
classic  Centepede,  Amigoids - good version of Asteroids, Cave Runner -
very  fast Rockford type game and Avatris - three people can play Tetris
at once with this game!

GPD090
Assassins 5

 
There  are  three Shoot Em Up Construction Kit games on this disc so all
the  gameplay  is  basically  the same.  The games are Go Looly - a cute
Shoot-Em-Up,  Retaliator - War plane Shoot-Em-Up and Raid - a helicopter
blast.  The graphics, however, on all the games are very good.

GPD091
Assassins 7

 
Another four top quality PD games for you to play.  Destination Moonbase
- moon landing game (difficult), Trix - colour in parts of the screen to
advance to the next level, Nightworks - a Fruit Machine simulator, Claus
Runner - a veriation along the Frogger theme.

GPD092
Assassins 8

 
Yet  more PD games for you to play and enjoy.  Air Ace 2 - a Shoot Em Up
Construction  Kit  game  with  nice  graphics, H-Ball - another Breakout
clone  (when  will  it end?), Number Fumbler - re-arrange the numbers in
the square into the correct order and Snake Pit - a centipede type game,
eat the mushrooms to get longer.

GPD096
Lights Out

 
This  game is similar to 'Master of the town'.  You have to smash street
lights and windows to progress through the game.

GPD098
Crossword

 
This  program  generates crosswords automatically or you can create your
own via the menu.  There is also an option to print out puzzles, you can
also  save  puzzle if one is too hard to complete in one session.  There
is also a dictionary on disk.

GPD101
Assassins 11

 
This disk contains 5 very good P.D.  games.  They are Dad,Connex, Towers
of  Hanoi,  Reversii  and Trippin.  Dad is a tile sliding game where you
have  to  move  one  large  tile  from one end of the grid to the other.
Connex  is  a four in a row type game.  Towers is a logic game where you
move  disks  from the first to the last peg without putting a large disk
on  top  of a smaller one.  Reversii is a traditional Othello type game.
Trippin is a pipe line type game where you connect electronic switches.

GPD102
Assassins 12

 
There  are  four  games for you to play.  They are Car, Llamatron, Power
pong  and  Xfi.   Car is a car racing game.  Llamatron is the now famous
'Jeff  Minter'  classic  blast'em  game.  Power Pong is a fast ping pong
game.  Xfi is a tron clone where you control a line which you guide to a
target before your opponent reaches it.

GPD103
Assassins 13

 
This  disk  contains  six  more  P.D.  games.  They are Ball, Asteroids,
Twintris,  Blockout, Squamble and Amigatration.  Ball is a breakout type
game.   Asteroids  is a version of the classic asteroids game.  Twintris
is  a  2  player tetris type game.  Blockout is a sideways breakout type
game.   Squamble  is  a plane arcade game.  Amigatration is a pairs type
game with several levels of complexity.

GPD104
Assassins 14

 
There are two games on this disk.  They are China challenge II and Amiga
columns.   China  challenge  is  a  chinese  puzzle game, good graphics.
Amiga  columns  is  another tetris clone but this time you have to match
blocks of a pattern inside each block.

GPD105
Wastelands

 
This  game  was written withthe '3D con kit'.  It is a graphic adventure
where  the aim is to disarm the warhead before the computer launches the
missile.  Looks like a very good game.

GPD119
Tetren
Andy Whiteley
 
This  is the pretiest Tetris clone I've seen.  It's perfectly suited for
beginners and kids as it's not as fast as some other versions - well the
first  three  levels  anyhow!  The display shows a 3-towered castle, the
game  drops  shapes in the two gaps between these towers.  In the single
player game, the second space gives game statistics, ie how many of each
shape  has been given.  The central tower shows the game score and lines
completed.   At  the top of this tower there are two tiny doors, one for
each  player.   A  lttle  man is shown here and if you pause the game he
leans against the doorpost and tosses a coin to amuse himself until play
restarts!   A  very  nice  touch.   This  game  is written with Amos and
compiled.  It is in this section as there was no room for source code on
the disk.  Recommended.

GPD120
Aliens
Aliens
 
This  is  a  shareware  version  of the ever popular Invaders game.  The
graphics are very nicely done and very colourful.  This version would be
nice  to  add to a child's collection of classic games as it is possible
for  even  a  novice  like  me  to get a decent way into the game before
dying!  This game was written with AMOS.

GPD126
Operation Lemming V1.32
Chris Foote
 
This  is  a  charity  disk, all profits are sent to the RNIB.  Blast the
little creatures off the screen just for fun!

GPD127
Solidquad
J. R. Evans
 
This  shareware  game is a fast car race with a choice of courses.  It's
fast and furious and has been tested by our own computer test driver who
thinks it's great.  The display is 3-D and you feel as if your rocketing
through the fire and water as you try to complete the course.

GPD128
Which Way Out
Mike Wellman
 
This  game  is  for  ONE MEG CHIP RAM OR MORE!!!!!  It is a game written
using  Aaron  Fothergill's TOME and compiled.  You have to travel around
on  a  scooter  to  complete  the  quest.   The  source-only  version is
available in the APDL for those of you who own TOME.

GPD131
Quadrix
G. Sparks
 
This  game  comes  from Australia and was written using Amos and machine
code.   It's  a  great game with Egyptian-style graphics, it's a sort of
4-way  block-matching  game  where  you have a pattern of tiles that you
have to eliminate by matching each one with the tile that appears on any
one  of  the  four sides of the grid.  The tiles are matched by pressing
Fire  when  the  correct tiles are in line.  This description doesn't do
justice to the game which is well recommended.  Shareware.

GPD132
Zalycon
Fanatix
 
NEEDS  GPD133 as well.  Fanatix have sent us their FIRST GAME.  This is
a  departure  from the very popular demos which have been on the library
for  over  a  year.   It  has  been  put into this section as it doesn't
contain  the source code, but it was written with AMOS.  This is a space
game which is very professionally produced.  There is an excellent intro
which tells you the story before you are taken to the options.  Here you
have  the  choice of 3 levels of play, the harder the option, the better
the  reward  on completing the game!  It's a space game where you have a
different  task  to  complete in each level before getting to your goal.
In  level  1  you  have  to  dodge the asteroids...  wow, is it fast and
furious!   I've  not managed to get past this yet, but I'm sure the rest
is just as action packed.  Well worth the price of two disks!

GPD135
Amos Games Disk 1
Andy Platts
 
This  is  a  games  disk which contains six games, many of which will be
familiar  to  you.  They include Glassback (a platform game) Snake Byte,
Minefield,   Lightcycles   &  Life  Expectancy.   This  is  a  shareware
production, well worth the registration fee.

GPD139
Battle Beyond Infinity
Mark Potter
 
Mark has contributed much to the APDL.  This is one of his latest games,
and  is  a  space/strategy program.  It can be played by 1-3 players who
must  buy ships, position them and the choose which weapon to use to try
and  blast his opponents away.  The interesting feature here is that the
order  of  play  is created randomly, so that player 1 does not have any
advantage  over  player 3 when the firing stage is reached.  A good game
that  must  have  taken  a  lot  of  planning.  The author is willing to
customise  the game to your requirements for a registration fee, details
are on the disk.

GPD140
Tron2
David Hilditch
 
This  is an Amos version of the Lightcycles/tron games that were popular
a  while back.  This one caters for up to four players.  Each 'race' has
four  runs,  after  each  of these you are taken to a shop where you can
spend  your winnings on extra features like bombs, invisible trails etc.
There  are  five  levels  and  after  each  race you are shown two score
tables,  one  shows how the bikers fared in that race, the second is the
overall championship table.  Nice presentation of an old game.

GPD151
Monstrattak V2
Raphael Borelli
 
This  is  a  game,  written  with  Amos,  from  France.   Raphael kindly
translated  the  instructions  in  English  for  us.   It  is a sideways
scroller  shoot'em up.  Great graphics add to this excellently presented
game.   It  has 5 levels and an end of game animation.  There are plenty
of  control  options - jumping to any level - the graphics are different
per level - fill up your energy meter - use shield etc.  This is a great
addition  to  the library, the code is not provided as Raphael wishes to
do more to the game.

GPD159
Superleague '93
Gary Pollock
 
Here  we have a football management game where you can be the manager of
Falkirk  or  Man  United.  Buy and sell your players, pick your team and
sit back and read the commentary as the match gets under way.  Make your
team the champs with this well presented game.  (Compiled Amos)

GPD160
Quiz Time
Gary Pollock
 
This  is  a  collection  of  Quiz  games done in the style of Pub Trivia
machines.  The subjects are varied and the games play really well.  This
is  a  very  playable  disk  which  is  a  good  addition  to  any games
collection.  (Compiled Amos)

GPD162
Spaced Out
Sudden Impact
 
This  is  a sideways scrolling shoot'em up and is S.I.'s first game.  It
is  very  playable.   Shoot  the aliens down to get onto the next level.
(Compiled Amos)

GPD163
Blitz
Paul Watson
 
This is a bomber type game with really souped up ideas.  You are allowed
to choose your weapons and you will earn better weapons as you progress.
The graphics are lovely and the gameplay excellent.  (Compiled Amos)

GPD167
Games Disk
Various
 
This disk contains 3 games - Arena, Card Sharp and Robot Sumo.  Arena is
a space shoot'em up, Card Sharp is a card playing program and Robot Sumo
is  a  sumo wrestling game where robots battle to get theur opponent out
of the ring.

GPD168
Spaced Out 2
Sudden Impact
 
This  is  a  playable  demo of a forthcomming release from SI.  It's got
great  promise  and  is  very  useable  as it is.  It looks nothing like
Spaced  Out  1,  although the gameplay is the same ie sideways scrolling
shoot'em  up, but it looks so much better as it will be set in different
scenarios in different levels.

GPD175
Roach Motel!
Playfield!
 
This game was sent to us from Playfield!  which is an Amos newsletter in
Florida,  USA.   It was written for the magazine and this is an enhanced
version   which   spots  PAL  or  NTSC  and  adjusts  the  screen  depth
accordingly.   The  idea  is  to  make  the man walk around the platform
screens  killing  the bugs and collecting spray cans.  There are various
other  features  like acid rain which kills you, and a magic toupe which
protects  the  wearer  from  some of the nasties!  Good stuff, I hope to
form a link with this group to bring some American programs to you.

GPD183
Assorted Games
Various
 
Derby  Day  by  Leslie  Wigmore.   This is a horse racing game where you
choose  your  horse, place your bet and watch the horses run.  You start
with  10 pounds, if you are lucky, you end up rich, if not, it's best to
go  home  and  try your luck another day.  Drawmore by Cybornetics.  Did
you  ever  play  the kids' party game where 1 person draws the head then
folds  the  paper over, the next draws the body, the next the legs, then
you  open  up  the paper to see the result?  Well this is the electronic
version  and it is good fun.  There1s a mini art package to aid drawing,
and  you  can  even print out the result.  It's not exactly shareware as
Rob  asks only for PD disks as payment, Well worth it!  KI by S.  Teague
this  is  a  midi program which allows you to store the instruments from
your keyboard.

GPD184
Lateral Quizzes 1 & 2
Dr John Foley
 
These  2 quizzes are compiled, parts 3,4 & 5 are in the APDsection (APD
475)  If  you  liked  Catchphrase on TV, then you will like these.  Each
quiz  can take about 30 minutes to complete, but you can choose to start
at a point 1/2 way through if you wish.  Our kids love these disks, some
questions will beat an adult's warped sense of humour, but on the whole,
even a 10 year old can get a lot of fun solving the puzzles.

GPD185
George's Quest For A Nose
Greg Malcolm
 
Shareware  -  only  2.50p  for  the  map  editor,  which  is  well worth
registering  for!   The  story behind this platform game is weird to say
the  least,  but  it  boils  down tothe fact that there are people whose
noses  have  been turned into trumpets, due to being forced to watch too
much  Coronation  Street.  George has escaped and has to find his way to
the  only nose replaceent centre which is in Birmingham.  It really is a
great  game,  I  enjoyed  it,  and  managed to get past the first level.
Joystick  controlled.   Well  worth  adding  tando your game collection.
This  is  a  good  and  fair  shareware  disk,  so  please  support  the
programmer!

GPD186
Gobblers
Ian Williams
 
Another  value Shareware game a mere 2.50p for the full version!  It's a
puzzle  type  game  where you have a grid with bones, children and other
things  scattered  on  it.   The  Gobblers  are hungry beasts who gobble
anything  they  walk  over,  so  your job is to protect the children and
guide the Gobblers to the bones.  The Gobblers can only move in straight
lines and so you can force them to move towards the bones by taking away
squares.   It's a bit difficult to explain, but believe me, it's a great
game.   This  version  has 8 levels and if you enjoy it, then it is well
worth 2.50p for the ful version.

GPD187
Heavy Battle Tank
Mark Potter
 
Another good game from Mark.  This time we have a tank battle game where
you have to blast your enemy's position.

GPD188
Warship
Wayne Morris
 
A very nicely presented game where you are a warship whose mission is to
clear  the area of submarines.  At the same time the enemy is bombarding
you  with  an  air  attack.   Quite addictive and pleasant to play.  The
number of Subs to bomb increases with each level.

GPD190
ASI Vol 37
Assasins
 
Klaktris, Pod, Packer and Ghostship

GPD191
ASI Vol 38
Assasins
 
One on One, Skyflyer 2, Baldy, Transplant

GPD192
ASI Vol 39
Assasins
 
Blue  Moon, Cardsorama, Seahaven, Amiga Solitaire, Cribmaster, Klondike,
Blackjack, Spades, Streets & Alleys, Power Poker

GPD193
ASI Vol 40
Assassins
 
Puzzle  15, Gold, Rush Hour, Dumbell, Flying, Cobra, Bunny, Get My Goat,
Wordhai, Rabbit

GPD194
ASI Vol 41
Assassins
 
Pacman Deluxe, Leap II, Tractorbeam, Hellzone 1, Hellzone II.

GPD195
ASI Vol 42
Assassins
 
Galaga '92, Dogs in Space, Invader Alert, Our Catalogue (Assassins_)

GPD196
ASI 43
Assassins
 
Detothello, Roulette, Cross Maze, Interlock (AMOS), Leapfrog Puzz, G-Boy
Tetris

GPD197
ASI Vol 44
Assassins
 
Galaxy '89, Mouse Impossable, Rollon, Rollon (Puzzle), Nibler,

GPD198
ASI Vol 45
Assassins
 
Ditris, The Brain 2.2, Teserae, B-castle, Parcheese, Kastle Kumquat

GPD199
ASI Vol 46
Assassins
 
Amiga-Q, Checkers, City, Ouch!, Isolation, Atom Smasher

GPD200
ASI Vol 47
Assassins
 
Elevation (AMOS), Furmyre, Crave (AMOS), Arena

GPD201
ASI Vol 49
Assassins
 
Crazy Sue 1, Crazy Sue II, Deathbringer in Space, Assault

GPD202
ASI Vol 50
Assassins
 
Euphorion, Roach Motel (AMOS), Balders Green

GPD203
ASI Vol 51
Assassins
 
Lamers, Fighting Warriors (AMOS), Shapes

GPD204
ASI Vol 52
Assassins
 
Rockslide, Mouthman, NU

GPD205
ASI Vol 53
Assasins
 
Supercube, Power wars, Mastermind, Velcro Grub, Venus Invaders, Quadung,
Splash, Kings

GPD206
ASI Vol 54
Assassins
 
Serene, Car Wars, Serene II

GPD209
Minefield
Allen Webb
 
If anyone has played 'Minesweeper' on the PC (Windows 3.1) then you will
know  how  addictive  this  game  can  be!  This is a long overdue Amiga
version  which  plays  really  well  and  is  just  as  addictive.  Well
recommended, well presented version of the original game.

GPD210
Games & Demos
Various
 
The  Games  on  this  disk are:- Pyromania & Mean Genie by Frank Dudley,
Light  Bikes  by  Aaron  McCormick.   The  Demos, All by Derek Piper are
Colour  Rave  Demo,  Funline  Demo and Hardline Demo.  In Pyromania, you
have  to fly around lighting candles as they move around the screen.  In
Mean  Genie,  you  are  on a magic carpet and have to bomb ghosts whilst
avoiding  snakes.   Light  bikes  is a 1 or 2 player version of the Tron
game.   The  Demos  are  all colourful and should give you some ideas to
emulate.

GPD211
Lateral Quizes 6-10
Dr John Foley
 
This  disk  contains  the  compiled  versions  of  John the Doc's latest
quizes.   These  will keep you well amused on a rainy day!  Suitable for
all ages!

GPD212
Numtris Demo

 
This  is an educational version of the now classic Tetris.  As you might
have  guessed,  the  game  involves numbers.  There are three difficulty
levels,  level 1 isn't too bad, but Level 3 will tax everyone who hasn't
got a calculator for a brain!  In this game you have to build up columns
of bricks each of which has a number to make up the target number at the
bottom  of the screen.  The hard part is remembering the existing totals
for  each  column so that you can out the next brick in the best place -
if  you  exceed  the  target  number, then that colomn is 'dead' until a
'zap'  brick  comes  along  which  will  allow you to wipe out the whole
column.   Getting  the exact target number will give you a new number to
create.  500 and 1200 compatible- there are two speeds set and basically
whichever Amiga you choose will alter the speed.  Shareware registration
will  get  you  the  full  version, this one trips out before a level is
complete.

GPD217
Compiled Amos Games
Various
 
This  disk  contains  programs  which  were  sent in, or requested to be
distributed as compiled versions.  Space invasion is from Kev Gallagher,
and  is  an  Amos  version  of the classic game.  Invaders is a slightly
different  invaders  game  where  the aliens move horizontally in single
rows  while you zap them, this is by David Christian.  Ben Addis sent us
in  Amigaclock which is an alarm clock proggie - full explanation given.
Fabrizio Bazza gives us the last 2 progs on this disk.  Mefistofele is a
card  game  and  Nag  is  a snake in a maze game where the bad snkes are
hell-bent on eating you a segment at a time!

GPD218
Doom-PD
John Scott
 
This  is  a  dungeon game where the aim is to free the princess from the
nasties  who  live underground.  Easy to control with plenty of fighting
and  treasures  to  find  before you find the heroine.  There is another
version  of the game available which I'm told is a bit 'naughty' but not
offensive!  See the docs for info!

GPD221
Compiled Amos Games
Various
 
Quasi,  by  Paul Young, is a hunchback game where Quasi Modo has to walk
along a wall collecting bonuses and avoiding hazards to ring the bell at
the  other  side of the screen.  In the Target is a game from Italy.  It
is a shoot'em up where you have to line up ships, planes etc in your gun
sights  and  shoot'em.   Bonuses  are also available in this game set on
three  levels of ability.  Works rather fast on a 1200.  Suicide Mission
is  from  David  Christian.   Here  you are a helicopter pilot trying to
shoot  down  the  enemy  and  avoiding  getting shot down yourself.  The
source for this game is on an Amos progs disk.

GPD222
Tetrix, Underground, XFI
From Australia
 

GPD223
Tower II
From Australia
 
An   excellent  demo  version  of  an  isometric  adventure  games  from
Australia.   There  is  a  fair  bit  of play in the demo version and it
includes some rather crude effects!  Naughty, but funny!

GPD224
Assorted programs
 
Akira Demo, Dogfight 1, Full View

GPD225
Various Progs
From Aussie Collection
 
Picturesque,  Revolution!,  Robbie to the rescue 2.  An Art package, and
two games.

GPD226
Assorted Progs
 
Lottoadvantage,  MazeGen  Demo, People Squasher.  Another Aussie proggie
to  do  with  the national lottery, a maze generator and a gruesome game
where the idea is to squash pedestians as they walk along the street.

GPD227
Duel
From Australia
 

GPD229
Dithell In Space 
Demo Version
 
 Darren  Ithell has sent us his Shareware game to distribute as PD demo.
The  game  and graphics are very impressive and the full version is well
worth the registration fee which is less than a fiver.

GPD230
Animal Land 1
MD Wilson
 
This is an educational memory game with animals as its theme.

GPD233
In the Target
Michele Berionne
 
This  is  a  game  from Italy where you have to shoot at targets using a
cross-hair gunsight.  Not the greatest graphics, but the game is good as
a first effort.

GPD236
Bounce
Paul Young
 
This  game is a very colourful platform game where you choose your level
from a rotating menu.

GPD240
GPD241
Necessary Roughness

 
This  is  a two disk American football management game written in Amos.
It  looks  very impressive, but as I don't have a clue about the game, I
find it hard to describe!

GPD242
The Dragon Compilation
Michael Wilson
 
14  year old Michael has sent us in his first shareware game compilation
disk.   It  contains  3  games,  Dragon  Sim, which is a flight sim view
dogfight  game where you, the `pilot' are seated on the back of a dragon
instead  of  inside  a  plane.   Sewer is described as a mindless stress
reliever  where you have to use your mouse by shooting the alien bugs as
they  come  along the sewerpipe.  It might relieve your stress, but your
mouse  will  need  a  rest  at a health farm to recover!  Dragon 2 is an
isometric  two  player  dogfight  type  game.  Good fun for two players,
difficult for one!

 Also on the disk are a couple of demos and vista pics.

GPD254
Fortress
Lee Bamber
 
This  is  a  demo  version  of  a  Licenseware  game  distributed  by F1
Licenseware  of  Devon.   It  is  an  Amos version of Megalomania and is
excellent.  This demo version gives you 10 minutes to have a look at the
kingdoms  and  their  stats  and also to do battle with one neighbouring
kingdom.

GPD246
Trooper
Paul Young
 
A  shareware  game  set  in space where you have to shoot down the enemy
ships  before  they  are close enough to damage you.  It atarts of easy,
but gets faster and faster.

GPD247
Blitz
Paul Young
 
Another  shareware  game from Paul Young.  In this one you are the pilot
of  a  fighter  jet flying above the jungle.  You have to shoot down the
enemy planes as they come towards you.


GPD251
Mr Shark Goes Racing

This racing game won a prize at the 1994 FES show in London. It is a
good program and is a shareware demo with more tracks etc available for
a fee.

GPD252
HARRY HADDOCK

This is a platform game with a fishy theme. Jump & collect the items
while looking out for the baddies! Recommended.

GPD253
HIGH OCTANE TURBO.
Paul Overy

This is the best Amos racing game around to date and shows what can be
done with Amos using the Turbo extension. Well worth looking at if you
enjoy this type of game.

     ====================ALLSORTS OF MUSIC =======================

GPD006
Classical Music 1
Rob Baxter
 
Rob  Baxter  presents  music by J.  S.  Bach.  Music on this disc is the
Brandenburg  Concerto  No.3 and No.4, Prelude and Fugue No.7 and Toccata
and  Fugue  in  D minor.  All the music has been produced with Sonix and
Synthia.  If you like classical music then get this disc!

GPD007
Classical Music 2
Rob Baxter
 
Yet  more  music by Rob Baxter.  This time he presents 'Sinfonia Arrival
of  the  Queen  of Sheba' and Allegro Deciso from Water Music by Handel,
Badinerie and Air (on a G String), Gavotte and Brandenburg Concerto No.5
by Bach and Canon and Gigue by Pachelbel.

GPD008
Classical Music 3
Rob Baxter
 
More music by Rob Baxter this time by Debussy.  Pieces on te disc are La
fille  aux  Cheveux de hir (Girl with the flaxen hair) and Arabesque No.
1.  As always they are of a very high quality.

GPD009
Classical Music 4
Rob Baxter

Please  order  disc  DV10  when ordering as this is a two disc set.  Rob
Baxter  this time presents Vivaldi's complete Four Seasons on the Amiga.
The music has again been produced with Sonix and is extremely good.

GPD011
Amigadeus
Rob Baxter
 
Yet  more  classical  music  by Rob Baxter.  This time the music is from
Mozart  and the pieces on the disc are Eine Kleine Nachtmusik - Allegro,
Romanze,  Menuelto  and  Rondo and the Horn Concerto No.4 - Rondo.  Very
nice.

GPD081
Rsi Drums & Pipes

 
A  very well presented disc of music and graphics.  There are 8 songs on
this  disc:   Crosslock,  Swift,  Enola Gay, X.M.F.T., SewerSong, Peters
Friday,  Saddam's  Fun and Theme From Drums & Pipes.  Another good music
disc to add to your collection.

GPD097
Rhapsody In Blue
Rob Baxter
 
This  is another excellent Rob Baxter version of a musical classic, this
time  he  has  chosen  George Gershwin's Rhapsody in blue.  Very nice to
load, sit back and listen to.

GPD099
Baby Sittin' Boogie

 
This  disk  contains two whole minutes of digitised music.  Just put the
disk in the drive to hear this golden oldie.

GPD100
I Got A Wife

 
Another record digitised and put on disk for your enjoyment.

GPD164
Music Demo #1
Sudden Impact
 
This  is a group new to the Amos scene.  The five tracks are played from
a  compiled  player.   There are 5 pieces of music to choose from all of
which are on the gentler side of computer music, I love it!

GPD165
Music Demo 2
Sudden Impact
 
This is the second music demo and contains 4 upbeat tracks played from a
compiled player .

GPD166
Music Demo 3
Sudden Impact
 
This  is  the third music demo containing a further 5 tracks from Sudden
Impact.  The styles of music on this demo are varied.

GPD177
Music
From Australia
 
A  disk  of  music  for  you to listen and use from the Aussie Amos club
collection.


      ==================== GENERAL UTILITIES ====================

GPD015
Iconmania

 
Very  handy  disc  for creating and manipulating WorkBench icons.  Tools
included  on  the disc help you to draw icons and turn IFF pictures into
them.   There  is  also a nice selection of icons on the disc for you to
use.  Very useful.

GPD016
North 'c' Compiler

 
This  is  a Public Domain version of C.  I can not write in C so can not
say  much  apart from the fact that this disc is not for people who want
to  learn about C.  This disc is only for people who know how to program
in C.

GPD018
Master Virus Kill

 
This virus killer does absolutely everything.  It will check hard disks,
check  for  viruses on files, copy bootblocks etc.  It is the only virus
killer you will need.

GPD027
Utilities

 
Disc  crammed  full  with  the  most  useful  utilities:   3RD  Day (pic
grabber),  A500  Test, Boot Any Drive, BootGirl II, Disk Salve, DosHelp,
Emulator,  Mem  Check,  Menu  Maker,  NewZap  3.25,  Packer, ST_Utility,
Undelete and Virus Expert.

GPD029
Med V3.0

 
The  latest Public Domain version of the best music editor around.  This
program  is  a  little  gem  to  use  and  included on the disc are some
samples,  sound and example music files for you to play around with.  If
you want a music editor then this is the one for you!  Plus users please
note:- Will load from workbench.

GPD035
Messysid 2.1

 
SID  is  a  CLI  alternative.   Basically it allows most operation to be
performed  without  the  use of the keyboard, just by using the mouse by
pointing  and  clicking.   It  also  contains  lots of commands that are
normally  not available in the CLI such as ARCing etc.  This version has
been  coupled  with  MessyDOS to allow you to use MS-DOS format discs in
SID  so  you  can  read  text files, copy files etc.  to and from MS-DOS
discs.   This  is  a very nice program and if you want to make your life
easier  I  suggest  you buy it!  This is the latest version of this very
useful program.

GPD038
Jazzbench

 
This  is  an improved version of workbench that includes options such as
iconising windows, better and more comprehensive menus along with a host
of other options.  Also included on the disc are some nice utilities.

GPD049
Speccy Emulator

 
What  can I say?  All of you who have been dying to turn your Amiga into
the height of modern technology now is your chance.  I must admit though
it  is  a good program and emulates the Spectrum very well.  Also on the
disc is a very nice disc copy program by D-Mob called D-Copy.  There are
lots of different copy modes.

GPD053
Sys Checker

 
This disc contains a full system checker to check your computers memory,
disc  drives, audio capabilities, graphics and clock etc.  This could be
quite  a  useful  program  to  check  to  see if everything is in proper
working order.

GPD054
Ham Lab
Dreamer Of Whizzcat
 
The program on this disc converts IFF-ILBM pictures from any computer to
the  Amiga.   This  is  a pre-release version and some options have been
disabled.   The  program  is  Shareware  and  you  are asked for a small
donation and in return you will receive the full version.

GPD055
Messydos

 
This  disc  contains  many picture convertors from one format to another
for example from Commodore 64 to IFF, IBM to IFF, ST to IFF and also GIF
convertors.  The disc also boots up into MessyDOS allowing you to access
MS-DOS format discs.

GPD056
Beginners Bench

 
The  disc  boots  up  into  a modified WorkBench environment with better
menus  containing  lots  of  useful utilities for example Perfect Sound,
Power  Packer,  Set Key and Tetra Copy to name but a few.  The disc also
contains  virus  killers  and  document  files for some of the programs.
Very useful.

GPD059
Utilities

 
A utility disc containing XOPER - a system tracker, MANDEL MOUNTAINS - a
3D fractal program, BOOT BLOBK CHAMP, TEXTRA - text file editor, BEZSURF
-  3D modeller, ZAP, JPDIRUTIL, POP UP MENU, KWIKBACKUP, CALCKEY, CLOCK,
VIRUSKILLER, MACH - speeds up the mouse, GFXmem - displays memory in the
form  of  bars  +  others.  All programs have documentation and most are
very useful.

GPD062
Text Programs

 
Lots  of  text  manipulation  programs  on  this  disc.  There are spell
checkers, mail managers, mail mergers and house keeping programs.  Quite
a useful disc.

GPD064
Utilities

 
Lots   of  utilities  on  this  disc,  mostly  aimed  towards  graphics.
Utilities  are Filemaster, RRP, TDraw, Virus Check, Fix-Disc, TextPaint,
LoadImage,  Disc-Opti,  Image_Ed,  MyMenu, Mandels, Dope Intro Maker and
Rainbow Writer.  Good selection of utilites.

GPD069
C-Light!

 
This  is  a  complete  Ray-Tracing  package containing scene editor, ray
tracer  and  animation  programs for Public Domain release.  On the disc
are  full  instructions and some examples of what can be produced.  This
program  is  a  lot  easier  to  use  than  other commercially available
products  and  results are brilliant especially considering this is a PD
program!

GPD070
Crossword Creator
Brian Moats
 
Lots of puzzles are already included on this disc in varying grid sizes.
Puzzles  can  be  loaded,  saved,  printed  or conerted to IFF pictures.
There  are  lots  of  options  to  help you including renumbering, clear
letters  etc.   If  you like creating crosswords then you will love this
program.

GPD071
Slideshow Kit

 
Shareware program.  Creates 'scripts' for displaying pictures.  Includes
a  variety of screen wipes.  The actual program is icon driven and after
reading the instructions you will find the program a joy to use.

GPD073
Vector Designer
TSB - The Special Brothers
 
Very  impressive  3D vector creator bt it must be said that this program
is  not  for  novices  as  it is very complex to operate.  Includes many
options   for   example   3D  filled  vectors  and  bob  vectors.   Full
instructions  are  included  which help alot.  Also included on the disc
are demos of what has been created and some sample objects.  Results are
very good.

GPD074
C64 Emulator

 
For those of you who have been dying to turn your Amiga into a Commodore
64  here  is  the program to do it.  Not much can be said about it apart
from  it  emulates  the  C64  very  well and I suppose is a nice novelty
program!

GPD078
Mixed Utils

 
Approximately   30   utilites   on  this  disc  most  of  which  include
documentation.   Highlights  on  the disc includes:  Diskmaster 3.0, Qed
0.19,  PowerPacker  2.3b, Diskopti 1.2, Coot Block Champ 3 and TetraCopy
(copy a disc and play Tetris at the same time).

GPD079
Intercostal Utils

 
Another  collection  of  around  30  utilities  again  most of then with
documentation.  Highlights on this disc include:  Red Sector Demo Maker,
Semtex Utility Boot, Setkey 2.0 and TwilightCopy 1.0.

GPD080
600 Letters

 
This  disc  contains 600 different business letters covering such topics
as  Legal,  Accounting  and  Sales  etc.   All  can  be loaded into your
favourite  word  processor  and  amended.   Useful  if  you  run a small
business.

GPD082
Quickbench

 
This  is  a  different  Workbench which works some ten times faster than
normal  and  does not require the boot disc to be left in the drive once
Workbench is loaded.  Quite a useful disc.

GPD085
Amivision Utils 9

 
Yet  another  LARGE  collection  of  utilities  this  time  without  the
documentation.   There  are,  however,  about 48 utilities on this disc.
Highlights  are:   BurstNibbler,  Master  Cruncher  1.1,  IFF Convertor,
Showiz and Boot Saver 1.0.

GPD086
Super 'c' Tools

 
This is a very large collection of utilities all on a bootable Workbench
disc.   None  of the utilities have icons and must therefore be run from
the  CLI.   There  is  a certain amount of documentation on the disc and
also  a  list  of  all the tools on it.  All the normal CLI commands are
also  included  so  you  can  use it as a work disk.  Nice collection of
small programs.

GPD093
Windows Bench

A  nice program this.  Once loaded yo will have the look of an operating
system  more  akin to the IBM Windows software but will operate the same
as  a  normal  Amiga.  Also included on the two discs are many utilities
and  their  documentations.  If you are interested in a new look or just
want some nice utilities then get these discs.

GPD095
Ibemulator

 
PLEASE NOTE THIS DISC NEEDS AN IBM BOOT DISC TO WORK.  Basically this is
an  IBM  Emultor  which resembles the IBM very well and you can load and
use IBM programs.  Full instructions are included on the disc.

GPD106
Asi Tools

 
This  is  a  disk  full of utilities put together by the Assassins team.
The  programs are varied and include such things as, Text engine (a very
good  text editor), calendar factory and loan calculator.  Full Docs are
supplied on disk.

GPD107
Crunch And Copy II

 
This  is  a disk full of crunchers & copiers for you to use, a very good
value for money disk!

GPD108
Text Engine V1.3

 
This  is a very classy looking word processor/text editor, which is very
easy  to  use.   The options are called from the top menu bar with icons
for  the  most  often  used  functions.   You can change the text style,
define  macros, use word wrap and even count the words in your document,
plus many more features.  VERY good value for money.

GPD109
Text Plus

 
This  is  a word processor with many features including justify, centre,
mark block, etc etc.  The program is Shareware as the annoying requester
keeps  on  reminding you!  Useful program if you need to write and print
letters or a book, but cannot afford a full-price processor.

GPD110
Prototyper V1.1
Derek Pell
 
Prototyper  is  an  electronic  CAD tool specially designed for defining
'Vero'  strip  board  layouts  similar  to  those  found  in  electronic
magazines.  Protyper is icon and menu driven making it very easy to use.
The  program  uses a library of component packages which are pasted on a
section of vero board of 38 matrix hole down and 63 across maximum.  The
program  also  offers  several powerful editing features that pen, paper
and rubber could never compete with, making it an essential tool for any
Amiga owner who dabbles in electronics.  This is a Private-ware program.
The full version is available from the author, who is also the author of
Electro  CAD.  Full details on disc.  (Thanks to Derek for providing the
description for this program)

GPD111
Amivision Utilities 10
Amivision
 
This  is  another disk full of utilities from Amivision with a couple of
games thrown in to keep you amused.

GPD113
Sinclair Pic Converter
Ramage Software
 
This  Shareware  program allows you to convert pictures from Sinclair to
Amiga format.  Nicely presented program.

GPD114
Zip V1.0
Ramage Software
 
This  shareware  program is a picture ripper.  Nicely presented and well
documented.

GPD115
The New Superkillers

 
This  is  disk  contains  virus  killers that will ensure that your disc
collection  stays  free  from  the  latest virus problems.  This version
updated January 1993.

GPD116
Amiga Fox

 
This  is  a  DTP  package  which  will  allow  you  to  try out Desk Top
Publishing  without  robbing  the  bank!   It has full text and graphics
editing facilties and comes complete with full manual on the disc.

GPD117
Hints Disc

 
This is an adventurer's hints disk.  Read the file wiith an Ascii reader
to  learn how to access these hints.  You can also use the hint maker to
write hints for other people.

GPD123
WHOM II V2.2

 
Needs  GPD124.   This  is  a  data base of who did what and when in just
about  all  the  cult  Sci-Fi programs ever made.  It includes Dr.  Who,
Saphire and Steel, Blakes S7 etc.

GPD118
Jam Disk 2

 
This is the famous Printer Driver colection as released by JAM magazine.
Very  useful  and is the disc recommended by many computer magazines for
those  of  you having trouble finding the right driver for your printer.
Contains  Canon48  -  the  driver  needed to get the most from the Canon
BJ10-e series.

GPD125
Bhagavad Gita
Known Only To Krishna
0000
This contains the complete book Bhagavad Gita which I assume is the book
used  by  the  followers  of Krishna.  It also contains the addresses of
centres around the world.

GPD130
Super Sound II
David O'Reilly
 
This  is  a  PD  version of a really great sound sample editor.  It does
everything  you'd find in a full priced package, and it's really easy to
use.   You  can mess about with sounds to your heart's content, changing
the octave, cutting bits out, fading in and out, brightening the sample,
making  it  metallic,  and lots more besides.  It does the whole job bar
making the coffee.  A good way into the world of Sound Editing.

GPD129
Copper Colourz V2.3
Yazoo/Fanatix
 
This  is  a  new Shareware Copper Editor which the author says is set to
rival  Rainbow Warrior.  It looks good and is easy to use with very many
extra  features.  This is the latest version of Yazoo's program, updated
July 1992.  This program was written and compiled using AMOS.

GPD142
New Canon Printer Drivers

 
This is an official drivers disk from Canon.  Load via Workbench.

GPD143
Canon Bubblejet Drivers

 
This  official  Canon  drivers  disk  contains  drivers  for  Bubble Jet
printers.  Load via Workbench.

GPD144
Starcatz
daniel fowler
 
This  is  a  disk  catalogue program which was written using Ncommand to
create  its  interface.  The style is WB 2, and it looks very efficient.
This  program  is  shareware  and  your registration fee gets you a much
improved  version  with enhanced features.  This is a very user friendly
way to store the details of your disk collection, and will show you what
can be achieved with NCommand.

GPD145   
TurboText
Harbinder Singh Ghag
 
This  is  a  text  editor  that  will  give  you  all  the features of a
commercial  text  editor.   It's been tested and works really well, just
the  thoing  you  need  to  write into the APDL or to TA!  It saves as a
TurboText    file   or   as   Ascii   which   will   load   into   other
processors/editors.  Well recommended.

GPD146
Picturesque
Paul Berkey
 
This  is  a  disk full of proggies written in Amos which was reviewed in
Amiga  Computing  a  couple of months ago.  It has now reached us and is
available  for  your  use.  Picturesque is a shareware art package which
you  can  use  just  as you would DPaint.  For a registration fee of ten
pounds  you will get a version that you can run at the same time as Amos
so  that  you  can  flip from one to the other.  AAlso on the disk is an
early  version  of  Daisy  Paint which is a paint & draw program for the
younger  artist  and  a  Smiley slide puzzle game.  The programs are all
well  presented  and worth having.  Full docs are on the disk, as is the
source code for the Smiley puzzle.

GPD150
Assorted Programs
Volker Stepprath
 
This  is  in the utilities section as 3 of the 4 programs are utilities,
the  last  is  a game.  The utes are as follows:- NotizBlock - this is a
calendar/diary  program  which  will allow you to enter appointments for
any  hour  of  any day.  It looks great and will be a useful addition to
your  collection.  AIFFPaint is an art package, again nicely done, Ambos
V1.29 is an upgrade of an earlier release, it's a Cli mask.  If you want
some  entertainment,  then  have a go at Magic Turn which is a strategic
puzzle  game,  which will get your greycells working!  Docs are provided
in English and German.

GPD158
Account Master V2.0
Martin Platt
 
This  program  will  keep your home accounts in order.  You enter in the
transactions and the program will sort out the balance for you.  You can
even  put  thing  in  in  advance  so  that you do not forget them, then
activate the transaction at the right time.  A very handy well presented
program which will be of great use to those of us who can't wait for the
monthly  or quarterly statement!  Sorry, it cannot arrange overdrafts or
hack into your local bank!  Well recommended.

GPD178
Fonts
From Australia
 
A disk of fonts to add to your collection.

GPD179
Printer Utes & .iff Fonts
From Australia
 
Useful printer utils and some fonts to add to your collection.

GPD180
Assorted Progs
Various
 
This disk contains three very different programs.  Stuart Taylor sent in
'TABMASTER' which is a guitar program which if you enter a musical note,
will tell you where to play it on the guitar.  It can be set so that the
note  is  shown on any of the 6 strings.  John Kinsella gives us 'HECTIC
II  ' which is an addictive puzzle game for 1 or 2 players.  The playing
screen  is  a  grid  containing red and green numbers, 1 player can only
move  horizontally,  the  other  vertically.   If  you  click on a green
square, the number is added to your score, a red square deducts from the
score.   It's  hard  to  explain,  but  it's a great game!  Last but not
least,  My  Dairy  is  presented  by  David Meager, age 13.  It's a well
presented  program  which you use to make notes as you would in a diary.
This is a good VFM (Value For Money) disk.

GPD181
AddressPrint V3
Paul Lathwell
 
This program will run on 1/2 meg machines, but only just, but if you are
reading  this,  you  must  have  1  meg  anyway!   This ute will take in
addresses  from  a  database  and  use  the information to print address
la
bels.  There is a second version on the disk which is specifically for
Star printers.

GPD182
Troni-cad V1 Demo

 
This  demo  program  was  sent into us from France to show what the full
version can do.  It allows you to design electrical curcuit diagrams and
print out the results.  The output is very professional.  the program is
easy  to  use and would be useful to anyone who needs decent diagrams of
this type.

GPD189
Gaters Gallery
Gator
 
This  is a tutorial disk for DPaint.  Gator is German and so the disk is
bilingual.   The  English  is  very  good  and although quaint in places
presents no problems.  The tutorial uses DPaint 3, mainly because v4 was
bugged  when  it  was produced.  Gator deals mainly with the creation of
logos  for demos, but I am sure that there are verry many handy hints on
the  disk  which  will  be  of  great use to all potential artists.  The
picture screens are .iff, so can be loaded into Dpaint and played around
with.  This disk comes highly recommended by Peter Paton, a Totally Amos
member, who sent it into us.

GPD213
Guitar Tuner Utility
Lee Gillett
 
Another guitar utility to add to your collection, this program helps you
to  tune  up  your  guitar  properly with on screen diagrams and sounds.
Very stylishly presented by Lee.  This is shareware, the registration is
a  mere 2 quid and for that you will get a voucher which will give you 2
quid  off  the  professional guitar video produced by Lee.  Full details
are  available in the ads on this disk.  Lee sent us a copy of his video
and  it  was  dutifully  tried  out  by  our 10 year old who has a small
knowledge  of  guitar playing and she found it extremly useful.  All the
chord  for  the song are shown before you start a song then you can play
along with the video as it shows each chord change and the song is sung.
The  disk is well recommended, the video also, although you will have to
send to Lee for that!

GPD216
Cool Copier
Someone In Australia!
 
This  is  a  very good disk copier which was sent to us from Australia a
while  back.   A  useful addition to your utilities if you do not have a
disk copier.

GPD219
Tele Titler 2

 
The  lowres version of this program can be found in the APD section.  It
is, as the name suggests, a titling utility which has loads of features.

GPD220
Ami-logo
Kieran Miller
 
This  program  was  written  with  Amos Pro and is a version of the Logo
language used by schools etc.  There are ful instructions on the disk and
a  Help facility which can be called up at any time.  I haven't had time
to put this to much of a test yet, but what I've seen, looks good!

GPD231
BWrite
Ben Ashley
 
 Ben has decided that this proggie is to be PD after holding onto it for
ages!   It's  an  Ansi writer.  If you do not know what this is, it is a
utility  which  allows you to `paint' using characters from the keyboard
to  create  coloured  messages/pictures such are seen on Bulletin boards
etc.  It's easy to use and useful for those wanting to design messages.

GPD232
ZOG-Fonts 1
J Auslebrook
 
Demo showing big Fonts for Ctext, available as shareware

GPD234
View Tools
Paul Compton
 
Utilities  disk  which  allows you to view lots of things!  Programs are
called  Viewdisk,  Viewphone,  Viewtree and convert.Disk comes with full
docs and Hard drive versions.

GPD235
Assorted Compiled Programs
 
Various programs from the USA plus EasyBase and Text Convertor

GPD239
ASI Virus Killers
Assassins
 
Thanks  to  Brian  of  Vally  PD  for  supplying me with a disk of Virus
Killers which work on the A1200! Several Killers plus full docs.

GPD254
Sonic Drum Kit v1.5
Malcolm Lavery
 
This   is   a  demo  version  of  a  tracker-type  program  for  budding
percussionists.   There  arre four tracks which can be filled with beats
from various effects situated at the top of the screen in your drum kit.
You can cut and paste rythms, change instruments and load in a couple of
previously  saved  scores  to  hear what this program can do.In the full
version,  available  from  Malcolm for a fiver, there is a choice of kit
which  will  make  things  even more fun!  There are lots of facilities,
some  of  which have been disables in this version, but there are plenty
here  to  give you an excellent idea of how much fun you can have.  This
program  is very well presented and is easy to use and does what it says
it  will!   Have  all the fun of being the next Phil Collins without the
expense of a full drum kit!
        
