


                   CD32  connection hacks



                            Daniel Pfund


                           April 24, 1995
                              Abstract

        This text file describes:

       o How to connect the CD32with your Amiga;

       o How to connect the CD32with an Amiga 2000 style keyboard.

     But before you read further, please note that you still do need a CD-ROM
     to be able to boot the CD32and communicate with another computer. In
     my case I used the Network CD from Almathera.



1    Disclaimer


I (Daniel Pfund) wrote this file purely to help other people to connect their 
CD32 with other peripherals.  I am glad to help, but I am in no way responsible
if you destroy/dammage your CD32 while attempting to make these connections.
I have tried to keep the information as accurate as possible, but if you find an
error, please contact me immediately! (see section 5 "Author" for the addresses
where you can reach me).
   Also please note that although this is no way a major electronics project,
you should at least know how to solder correctly! Don't attempt this if you have
never soldered before . . .



2    Introduction


As you read in the abstract, this file will describe how to connect several items
to your CD32 . I wanted to list here some other references you might find useful
(that's where I got the information from).

  1. The CD32FAQ. You can get it by FTP at: "ftp.demon.co.uk:/pub/amiga/
     info/cd32-faq.txt". This is really the main reference and you will find a
     huge amount of information here. The only problem being that it is very
     difficult to access the FTP site, even at non prime time hours.

  2. Article posted by Anders Stenkvist (ask_me@elixir.e.kth.se) called "CD32
     expansion port info". It has all the pinouts you need, but contains at least
     one error (the one I've found!), so I don't know if the rest is correct. . .

                                  1

3    Parts needed


The following parts are needed:

   o 1 MAX 232

   o 1 16 pin IC socket (optional)

   o 4 1 microF elctrolytic capacities (or 10 microF goes also) rated 16V

   o 1 mini DIN 6 poles male

   o 1 DIN 5 poles female

   o 1 DB-25 female

   o 2 m (more or less) of 2 conductors (+shield) wire

   o 20 cm (more or less) of 5 conductors (+shield) wire

   o 1 led (optional, see section 4)

   o 1 330 ohms (or 470) resistor (optional)

   o 1 box to put the whole thing into (optional. . . )

All the parts should be available at your local electronics store and the only
costly part is the MAX 232 (~ 6$), and all the parts would cost you about 12$.



4    The cable


Once you have got all the parts you need, you can start putting them together
following the accompanying schematic in the IFF file.
   The way you do this is entirely up to you.  All you have to do is connect
together the pins with the same name. You can do it very easily on a piece of
veroboard or completely professionaly on a circuit. I've not provided the PCB
plan, but it is not very difficult to invent one.
   As you can see, you can add a led to check if the CD32 is on and everything
is working fine. This is absolutely not mandatory. You will just need an extra
led and a resistor to limit the current going through it.



5    Author


You can contact me via snail mail at:

                             Daniel Pfund
                          19, ch. de Tirelonge
                            CH-1213 Onex
                             Switzerland

   You can also reach me via E-Mail (preferred !): "Pfund@uni2a.unige.ch"
or if this address doesn't work any more (in a couple of years) you can still
write to me at: "hb9vbc@pccr01.cern.ch". (Note the zero, not an o !)
                                  2

6    History


v 1.1 (25.04.95)

   o Corrected an error in the pinouts of the IFF picture. Thanks to Paul Day
     (pday@gate.net) for the error report;

   o Changed the IFF file to 2 bit planes (B&W) only.

v 1.0 (10.04.95)

   o Initial release to Aminet in "hard/hack" directory.
                                  3
