1st of all: sorry for my terrible english. If you can, read the other parts of
this doc ;)

I took a power supply from a PC (ATX), it's turned on by connecting "Power ON"
(+5V) to the ground.

SEL2 is the signal SELECT DRIVE 2. You'll find it at the pin 21 of the external
floppy port. To turn off the power you have to type "halt" in the Shell (the
command is in the archive).

In the normal condition you'll find a signal with about +5V at SEL2. "Halt"
causes the volatage to fall down to 0.5V for a short (~ 1s) moment. That's
enough for the transistor to interrupt the circuit and switch off the power.

Some PSUs have less then 5V on "Power On", in this case a third transistor should
help, like on schem3.png. The circuit takes now 5V from "Stand By" (5VSB), the
third transistor shorts "Power On" with ground, no matter what voltage is on
"Power On". The LED is for some current that the thyristor needs to stay opened.
Depending of the type of LED a resistor may be needed to be placed before the LED
to drop down the voltage. The LED might be also replaced by a resistor or you can
add more LEDs if you like a lightshow. It's up to your imagination :) If the Amiga
turns on immediately after the PSU gets power then a 100k resistor (dotted) should
be added between the ground and the basis of the BC547C that shortens the PSON.
The third transistor will also work with BRX47 - just connect it the same way
it's added to schem2.png

This circuit works on my Amiga already for some years and I haven't seen
a negative effect. Just sometimes very old programs (like X-Copy III) crashes
so bad, that SEL2 goes low and the power turns off. I don't care for this, but
if someone does: you can add a switch disconneting the base of BC 557C from the
circuit. In this case, the power supply works until you pull the cord or shorten
the BC 557.

Although this circuit runs for me without any problems, it is not given that it
will be the same with your Amiga. If you build this circuit, you'll make it at
your own risk. I'm not responsible for any damage, data loss, gasp cough or flu.

Both versions with BT196D were done by MASTEr in April and May 2005.

atx.png shows the ATX-PSU pinout.

If someone has an idea, correction or whatever - email me: valwit@valwit.net

