
                                     ***

                             Vangelis The Artist

                                     ***
        

The musical talents of Vangelis first became obvious at the age of four.  His
parents  tried  to encourage him to study with a professional teacher, but he
did  not  respond  well  to formal education as he was generally unwilling to
follow instructions.

Vangelis  explains,  "I have always felt that you should not borrow knowledge
from  others,  because  personal  experience  and  development  are of utmost
significance."

After  leaving  school he and some friends formed a group called Formynx.  In
the  early 60s this band packed Greek stadiums with thousands of music hungry
fans.   Vangelis  was virually the first artist that brought pop music to his
home country.  Formynx was soon Greece's most popular musical group.

During  the  Greek  upheaval  in 1968 Vangelis moved to Paris.  Together with
Demis  Roussos  and Loukas Sideras he formed a band called Aphrodite's Child.
This  group scored an immediate world wide hit with their first release, Rain
and  Tears.   Aphrodite's  Child  went on to release several further European
number-one  singles  over the course of three years.  The band split up after
their  controversial  double  album  666.   Vangelis  remained in Paris for a
while,  recording  a  couple  of  film  soundtracks  for  the French director
Frederic  Rossif  (among  these L'Apocalypse Des Animaux and La Fete Sauvage)
and  giving an amazing performance at the "Olympia" to promote his first solo
album, Earth, on the Philips label.

In 1974 he moved to London in the midst of a storm of rumors that he would be
joining  the  group  Yes  as  Rick Wakemen's replacement on keyboards.  After
rehearsing  with  Yes  for  several  weeks Vangelis left, explaining that his
musical  theory  and  directions  and the group's were too far apart.  It was
during  his  stint  with  Yes  that  he  and  Jon Anderson became friends and
collaborators.

Vangelis  soon signed a recording contract with RCA, and assembled his own 24
track  studio  known  as  Nemo Studios.  Nemo Studios is near London's Marble
Arch,  and is referred to by Vangelis as his laboratory.  The first album cut
here was Heaven and Hell.  This first album on the RCA label, a collection of
extraordinary  and forceful music, catapulted him to the forefront of popular
music  in  Europe  and  the  United  States.   To  this date, all albums that
followed  Heaven and Hell were equally internationally acclaimed and enormous
sellers.   Vangelis  achieved an array of awards, among them an Oscar in 1982
for the soundtrack of the film Chariots of Fire.

The  music  of  Vangelis  is too diverse to be described as either pop, rock,
classical, jazz, or new age.  Explaining his music, Vangelis says, "All I try
to  do  is  let  people know what I think through my music.  I just bring the
music to you and it is up to you to do what you want with it."

        

Taken from the Greatest Hits Album (1981)


---
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
