
                                     ***

                            A TRIBUTE TO EL GRECO

                                     ***


A  musical  composition  by Vangelis Papathanassiou and the National Fund for
the Purchase of Works of Art.

         Vangelis Papathanassiou paved the way for the collection of the very
substantial   sum   of   money   required   for  the  purchase  of  Domenicos
Theotocopoulos'  Saint Peter by the Greek National Gallery.  El Greco created
his  work  far  from  his fatherland, in a voluntary, though not less painful
exile,  always  with  the  desire  and homesickness for Crete, as attested by
numerous  pieces  of  evidence,  and most significantly, by the signatures in
Greek  that persistedly accompany his paintings.  The analogies with the life
of   the   contemporary   Greek  composer  Vangelis  are  evident.   Vangelis
Papathanassiou  belives  that Domenicos Theotocopoulos was able to create his
sublime  opus  due  to  his  Greek origin, education and conscience.  To be a
Greek  is  for  Papathanassiou a privilege and a responsibility.  The musical
work A Tribute to El Greco emerged from this sense of responsibility.

This  same feeling led him to his decision to offer to the Nation Gallery the
CD  of  his  musical composition in three thousand signed copies, in order to
establish  a  National  Fund  for  the  Purchase  of  Works of Art.  Vangelis
Papathanassiou's musical composition is inspired by Domenicos Theotocopoulos'
pictorial  symphonies.   Vangelis' music and El Greco's religious visions may
lead  us  to a similiar type of ecstasy.  The great Spanish soprano Montserat
Caballe  culminates the celestial symphony, thus giving a live voice voice to
El  Greco's angelic choirs.  So El Greco's two fatherlands, Greece and Spain,
may  be  joined  in  a contemporary creation.  The participation of the tenor
Konstantinos   Paliatsaras  is  exceptional.   Warner  Music  United  Kingdom
produced  3000  CDs,  which  were donated to the National Gallary towards the
creation of the National Fund for the Purchase of Works of Art.


---
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
