A Walk With the Lord, Step by Step, Into the Glory of God



I was out walking and, as John Bunyan might say, the Lord used His
picture book---the world---to show me what to say. As I stepped out from
my home, I let Him show the way. I knew the goal, and the general
course, but I did not know the path. As I set out on my walk I caught
myself trying to chart a path, then thought, "No. That is not how the
Lord leads."

While the Lord will show you the goal, and His Word provides the general
course, He does not show you the path. Instead He shows you one step.
Once you take that step, He shows you another. If you will follow Him
step by step, studying closely the course, you will find yourself at the
goal. Even when you find yourself at the goal, it is up to you to
receive it. He will not force you to take any step, not even the one
that will place you in His rest. It is up to you to receive it.

As I continued walking, reaching obstacles, seeing paths to pass them,
the thoughts were alternately, "How will He lead me here?" and, "Trust
Him. He will show the way." I found myself walking through snow, then
avoiding snow, walking on ice, and other times avoiding it. You would be
amazed at the traction a dead leaf can provide. Twice I found myself
confronted with berms. The first time, I paused and considered a path
over the top. It looked solid. It looked safe, but He showed me a path
around. As I followed His path, I noted how the berm had been hollowed
out, and how the foot of a small animal had gone all the way through.
The path around had not looked as safe as the path over, but I trusted
in Him.

The Lord will not always show you the path that you think is best. He
will not always show you the path that makes sense to you, for His
thoughts are not your thoughts, and His wisdom is far above your wisdom,
if indeed you have wisdom at all, for He uses the foolish to confound
the wise. Just when you think you know the way, and you stride
confidently forward, ahead of His lead, is when disaster may strike. Had
I followed my own reasoning and climbed over that berm, I might have
broken my leg.

Later, I came to the other berm. As I approached this berm, I again
caught myself trying to chart a course around, and thought, "No! Follow
the Lord!" So I forgot about the berm and concentrated on the step
before me as I followed His path---directly to the side of the berm. I
paused, considering. I noted a path over the top, but this one did not
look safe. Still, I hesitated. Then I noticed a leaf, about halfway up
the side, then another at the top. I stepped and the snow did not give.
I stepped on the next. Again the snow held. I crossed the berm without a
mishap, without even a slip. I trusted in Him, and followed His path.

Trust in the Lord and the steps that He shows, for where He leads you,
there will He also guide you, and where He guides you He will also guard
you. Along the course of my walk there were times when my foot slipped,
but my Lord was there to save me from falling. I was in His hands. Where
I slipped, there did He catch me.

One step. Not a leap. Not a mad dash, flying off a cliff into nowhere.
One step. And if that step yields solid ground, one step more. When
Joseph, son of Jacob, went down to Egypt he did not proceed directly to
the side of the throne. He went as a slave. From there he went to a
prison cell. After 13 years in the valley, Joseph ascended the mountain,
and became second in command over the kingdom of Egypt. He was 30 years
old when this happened.

When Joseph was a boy of 17 years, the Lord showed him a glimpse of the
goal the Lord had in mind for him. He did not show Joseph the path to
that goal, but Joseph knew the general course: follow the Lord. Remain
faithful to the Lord in all things and He shall lead you to His rest.

Joseph did not deserve the sufferings he went through, yet neither was
he perfect. Indeed he was boastful and insensitive, perhaps even
arrogant. Before he could serve the Lord, he needed to be humbled. He
needed to learn to depend only on God. Joseph was faithful and followed
the Lord where ever He led, and He led through the valley to the
mountaintop.

Will you follow the Lord where ever He leads, or will you choose the
lands that look lush over the land of promise? Will you look with the
Spirit of God, or with your eyes? Will you chase around after the brass
ring? He knows your needs even before you ask, and He is faithful to
provide. Who is like the Lord?

Will you seek retribution for your suffering? Will you also pay the
price for the suffering you have caused? The price for your evil is your
soul. Once you pay the price, how will you buy back your soul? Even the
universe is not enough. This is a price you cannot pay. The ransom is
too great.

And yet His rest may be found, for the ransom has already been paid. It
has been paid, not by you, nor by any man, save the Lord Jesus Christ.
Jesus came down from Heaven, into the body of a man, and lived a life
free from evil. There was no price he owed, yet He paid the price for
you, hanging on the tree. His blood brings you life, and deliverance
from evil. Accept His gift and you shall be saved.

The path to the goal will not be what you expect, for the Lord's wisdom
is not yours, but is far above your wisdom. The Lord does not work by
anyone's timetable but His own. The path may be convoluted, and hard,
and long, oh so long.The fruit of the Lord's plan for you may not show
in your lifetime, or even that of your children, but instead may be long
generations down the path. But, if you will trust His steps, and follow
them faithfully, step by step, you will climb the mountain into the
glory of God.

Likewise you must not judge a person's value by worldly appearances.
Modern worldly thought would look at a person with worldly eyes, judge
their contributions and potentials in that light, and if none is seen,
cast them into the dustbin of history as unworthy of our love. You,
however, must look with the eyes of the Lord, for He sees all and knows
all. His wisdom is not yours.

Early in the last century, there was a woman named Ella. Ella was
widowed at an early age, and was left to raise five sons on her own. The
wisdom of the world would say, "They can make no contribution. Cast them
aside. They are worthless to us." How narrow is your focus? How wide are
your eyes opened? Do you look with Heaven's eyes? Will you cast Abram
and Sarai aside? What can they contribute? Have you heard the name of
Jesus? He came through their seed.

Ella had five sons, and she raised them alone. She fought and scrimped
and saved and raised her sons. One of them was sick as a child, and
never progressed beyond the sixth grade. What would the world say? "What
can he contribute? Cast him aside." Yet he is one of God's children. Woe
be to him who causes one of these little ones to fall. It would be
better for them to be tied to a millstone and cast into the sea than to
cause one of these to fall. Follow the wisdom of the Lord.

Follow His steps. Follow them faithfully, and you shall achieve the
goal. This child had children of his own. The Lord's steps are being
followed. The mountain is being climbed. One of these children is a
corporate executive, and knows the Lord. One is an electrical engineer.
One is a secretary for lawyers. One is a lawyer, with children of her
own. The other writes these words. The steps of the Lord are being
followed. The mountain is being climbed. The wisdom of the Lord shall
prevail.

The wisdom of the Lord shall prevail in all things, but it shall not be
as you expect, for His thoughts are not your thoughts, and His wisdom is
not your wisdom. Truly He uses the foolish to confound the wise. With
His love, even the weakest tree does bear fruit. Even the sparrow does
not starve, by His grace. By His grace, the elderly couple does
conceive. By His grace, the disgraced One hangs from the tree, yet still
bears fruit. He opens the path, by His grace, allowing the believer, His
children, to climb the mountain, into the glory of God.

May you trust in Him, and in His guidance. May you follow Him step by
step, faithful to His love. May you follow Him faithfully, as He leads,
up the mountain, into the Glory of God. Amen.



William F. Maddock
St. Louis, Missouri
January 23, 2001