
 The whole truth about Bill by Eraser/SCB, Craid/RNO^SCB and Standhal/SCB
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Ok, first of all, we want to say that we are definitely NOT pC-haters! =)
 We just  want to  tell you the TRUE  story about  the  evil mission  of a
 KGB-agent named Boris-Nikita-Gavralnitski the 3rd (also known as Bill G.)
 to take  over the  world with his mindbending  nuclear hamburger-machine.
 Okay, so let's get it on...

   Boris-Nikita-Gavralnitski  the 3rd  was born on October the 5th 1955 at
 the old McDonalds-farm in Novorossisk/Siberia. He was a brave farmer-kid,
 and  nobody had  even a clue about  how dark  his  future will  become...

 At one evening  he wanted to visit his  grandma which  lived in  the deep
 Taiga-forests, so  he took his  brandnew RED  jacket from THE COMPANY and
 his seven-miles boots and left the house. As on the way he collected some
 flowers and haschusch-plants for his grandma, a big lightning has hit his
 golden tooth. An evil energy has gone over him and his face became like a
 24-bit copper rainbow... In the next years he began his carreer as a KGB-
 agent. At  first he started at the kitchen as  a vodka-glass washer. Then
 he became  more interesting  jobs like  assasinations and  programming in
 basic. In the year of 1972 AD he became part of an agent-exchange-program
 between  the USA and USSR/CCCP.  In the same year he started  to study at
 the McDonald-cooking university of Nevada  placed in Area 51 (you know...
 the truth is out there!:). His first program on an Atari XXXxxxXXxxxL was
 ILCSCS (Intel-Ligent Cow Spot Counting System), for  which he became  the
 Interactive Nobel-Price  for the best mathematical  alghorhithm. But then
 the CIA (no, not the  Amiga-chip you  dumb-ass!)  had found  out that the
 main source was stolen from the users-guide of a top secret russian mega-
 computer "Vrenia" (TM) which  was a ZX Spectrum-clone  with a 1Mhz turbo-
 board. For this horrible crime he had to die trough a Mr. Propper poison-
 injection. Boris waited  for the execution in the  Alcatraz-prison, where
 the KGB-agent sweared revenge on the democratical countries of the world.
 There he also  met Sean Connery and Nicolas Cage.  One day, the charwoman
 has forgot to close the  door, so they could escape. Boris  had to change
 his identity, so  now he is known as Bill G. or  B. Gates. In the year of
 1980  he  founded  the first  terroristical  agency in  the world  called
 "Mikrowsiewsoftskaja", but this name was already under the copyright of a
 Russian company  which produced little Atom-bombs  for Saddam Hussein. So
 he changed the name to "Microsoft". And so the dark legend was born... In
 the beginnings,  Microsoft produced shafts for Lybian tanks, but that was
 not terroristic enough, so Bill decided to spread his newest super-weapon
 against  democracy: THE DOS!!! (Disobedient  Operating System). The first
 versions  of  this DEADLY  weapon caused  1.4 million  people to  die  in
 horrible convulsions! After years of DOS-holocaust, Bill decided to bring
 an even more powerful mass-destruction weapon: The Windows!! 3.11 million
 people died in just one night!!! After a short time Bill decided to bring
 to perfection his nuclear operating system which could be more efficient.
 After months  of hard work he developed  a new version  of Windows, which
 had an increased killing efficiency of about 95 percent!!!
 And so Windows 95 was born...

     Beware stranger! The evil Bill is still working on increasing the
     efficiency of  his nuclear  hamburger  machine  to  100 percent!!
     Soon Windows 98 will arrive!! Don't let them make Windows 100%!!!
     Buy Barbie dolls instead of Windows!!!



 This propaganda text is © copyright 1997 by S.H.A.U.G.
                  The real Saddam-Hussein-Amiga-Users-Group!

