Amiga Arena Interview mit Felix Schwarz Developer from FxPaint..
----------------------------------------------------------------

Transladet for the Amiga Arena by Christian B.


*Hello, would you please introduce yourself to the readers of Amiga Areana?

I reckon most know me already, but for those who don't yet know me a couple of lines about me:
I started programming in 1988, first on a ZX Spectrum, then a Sinclair QL.
The Amiga 2000 and Amiga 1200 were my next computers, and Ultraconv,
my first commercial project, was created on the latter,
but only matured to the first commercially distributed version 3.0 on an Amiga 4000.
At the end of 1998 I started developing fxPAINT,
and was able to present version 1.0 already at the end of 1999.
Apart from many small projects of various kinds,
titles like fxSCAN and VHI Studio have been added and are enjoying increasing popularity.

*How did you get to the Amiga?

The Amiga 2000 and his graphic abilities had convinced me and didn't let go again.
I have always loved niche computers, because mostly they're much clearer
and are going alternative, most of the time significantly more efficient
ways than the mainstream systems.

*Since when have you been an Amiga user?

That must have been since around 1990/91.

*Which Amigas do you own?

There's an Amiga 4000, an Amiga 1200, and an Amiga 3000,
all well spiced up, but only the A4000 has a PPC.

*Which OS version do you run?

I'm still developing under OS 3.1,
because all programs have to run optimally there.
Only the final tests are then done under OS 3.5 and OS 3.9.

*Which software are you developing?

fxPAINT, fxSCAN, VHI Studio, and Ultraconv.

*How did you get the idea for developing fxPAINT?

As it is usually the case with me before I start developing something,
I had a vision and a pretty good image of what the program should ultimately be able to do.
Once I have a vision that's fascinating me,
it doesn't let go of me until it's become reality.
In this case I wanted to write a graphics program that integrates as many functions as possible,
has a modern, intuitive user interface,
leads to fast results, supports the PPC, is able to tap into various picture sources,
is faster than anything else on the market etc. etc., and today that vision has become reality.

*Will there be further updates etc.?

Yes. I'm currently working on a number of updates,
esp. new versions of fxPAINT, fxSCAN, and VHI Studio.
The list of new features is already impressive and growing steadily.

*Will you port your software to the "AmigaOne"?

If it will ever become available, and the port will be worthwhile, yes.

*Will you switch to the "AmigaOne"?

I will most probably not buy the Eyetech board,
as I regard its concept as a complete mishap,
and can't imagine that this board will find enough buyers to justify support.
I will wait for a clean solution like the Pegasos board.

*Don't you lose the fun in developing
if you see how little this is still honoured in the Amiga marketplace?

The frustration level amongst users has by now become extremely high.
But I don't let myself put off by the abuse from a few people who can't control themselves.
For as long as there's a sufficient number of Amiga users who know how to
appreciate high-quality software, and are willing to honour this quality by
purchasing the software, I will keep on developing the software.
Anyway it's always fun. The results of the poll on our web sites show
clearly that the Amiga marketplace is consolidating, and there are only a few abandoning ship.
That leaves the hope that it will stay that way,
and that we don't fall below the necessary critical mass for me and my development.

*Will you support further Amiga OS versions?

If they will ever become available, and the port will be worthwhile, yes.
However, a port to AmigaDE isn't planned at this time.

*When did you last use your Amiga?

I'm currently writing these lines on it :-)

*Which software did you last buy for the Amiga?

Yikes, that has been a while, as I have the habit of writing my software myself :-)
I reckon it to have been STFax or PageStream.

*Which application/game software do you still use?

YAM, GoldEd, PageStream, Directory Opus, SAS/C as well as my whole palette of software :)
and many small tools and little helpers.

*Which software are you still planning to buy?

The Pegasos board at any rate.

*Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

It will probably not approach its old splendour,
but I don't rule out that the market may grow again,
reinvigorated by new hardware and operating system versions.
Though Amithlon alone, the AMIGA market will incerase a good deal.

(c) by Amiga Arena 9/2001
