Amiga Arena Interview with Sebastian Jedruszkiewicz - Frogger/Softcinema
------------------------------------------------------------------------


*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

Hi, my name is Sebastian Jedruszkiewicz, I am 27 years old male,
single, living in Szczecin,Poland.
2 years ago Ive finished Technical University in Szczecin,
since then I am working as Java/C++ programmer in BellStream.

*Since did you start to work with the Amiga?

I bought my first a500 back in 1993, then I had an a1200, and now...

*What Amiga Modell do you own?

...now I got a4k desktop, csppc 604/200 and 060/50, cvppc, delfina,
prometheus (currently not filled with any cards)
plus some additional goodies.

*What Version of the OS is running on your Computer?

W98. Ah, on Amiga? ;) 3.0.

*Which Software Develope you?

Currently I spent most of my free time developing Frogger,
I am also doing some additional
programming for SoftCinema.
I am working also on some other projects for Amiga,
but I can not tell you what
is it, thats a secret ;)

*Can you tell us what your software is about?

It is an mpeg video player. It can also play str movies,
that can be found on cds with psx games.

*What created the idea in you to continue developing your software?

Well, It is my profession ;) and a hobby, quite amusing.

*How long took the development up to now?

2 years. I picked frogger sources from Miloslaw Smyk in August 1999.

*What software are you using?

For development? ced, gcc, sometimes SAS/C,
plus bunch of tools for debugging (mungwall, enforcer, stuff like that).

*For what system are you developing?

AmigaOS. Thats my private development, at work, I do stuff for windows/linux.

*What can we expect from future versions?

Dont know, really. It mostly depends on user requests.
Of course I got some cool ideas about possible enhancements, but thats a secret ;)

*Don't you lose the fun and interest in developing when
you see the small amount of feedback and money you get
from the small Amiga market?

fun? never. and even if there wont be any interest at all,
I consider writting this software as "self training",
Ive learned a lot about video/audio compression during last 2 years...

*Get you enough Feedback for you Software?

I think so, considering small amiga market and piracy.

*When did you use your Amiga for the last time?

Today. Its actually turned on all day long,

* What software have you bought for your Amiga last time?

voyager, I belive. but it was couple months ago, I may be wrong...

* What software do you use till today?

Compilers, editors, programming tools. Sometimes irc client, web browser.
I am using my Amiga for programming, mostly.

* What soft/-hardware are you planning to buy?

HW - none. got everything I need.
Maybe Ill buy pegasos motherboard, when it become available.
SW - dont know, there isn't much software I really need
(as all I do on Amiga is programming).

* Would you support the Amiga One?

Probably. Right now,
I dont even know what OS will run on that, what API will it use, etc.

* Do you believe in a comeback of Amiga?

To be honest - no. Even with new hardware, Amiga still needs software,
and considering small number of active amiga developers,
I dont belive we can get decent software,
which will bring new users to amiga
(or even old users, which sold their amigas).

Thank you for your Answer!

You welcome.

(c) 9/2001 Amiga Arena

