The Navigations of Vangelis

by Christian Jacob
Keyboard Magazine
#61, December 1992

Translated by Piet Verhoeven

        

                                 Background


Vangelis Papathanassiou has known for a long time that music is the best ship
to  discover  new  worlds.   As  an  indefatigable  traveler, he explores the
archipelagos of modern music, the sunny winds and the perfume of sounds.  And
in  1992,  at  last, he meets Christopher Columbus ...  While others discover
only  one  continent,  Vangelis  likes  to  navigate islands and multiply the
anchorages.   Complex  wake, elusive, where solitary waves and the collective
rash  deeds  alter, the great maneuvers and the people with style and refined
elegance.

Vangelis,  born  in  Greece,  was  raised  with a piano.  For his country, he
guards  the  light  and  the  spirituality,  a  poetry  which is colored with
nostalgia,  the love for a thousand year- old tradition which has survived in
the  songs of the shepherds and the farmers, quite remote from doubtful tunes
of the Plaka, with it's industrial brochettes and paltry bouzoukis.

Vangelis  revives  that  luminous  Greece, which has nowadays the strength of
mirages,  namely  by  his  collaborations with Irene Papas, 'Odes' (1981) and
'Rhapsodies'  (1986),  where  subtle  musical textures surround magnificently
interpreted  popular  chants.  Vangelis's generous temperment has without any
doubt  to  do  with  his  Mediterranean  roots, as is his lyric spirit, which
manifests  itself so well in the improvisations, the lightning fast impulses,
the intuitive orchestrations which characterize his style.


                             From Lyre To Synths


Vangelis,  the  Greek,  also  comes from another country:  pop music.  In the
sixties,  he had his first successes with his group Phormynx (the lyre).  But
the  dictatorship  of  the  Colonels  in  1968  rendered Greece unlivable and
dangerous,  and  like  many  others  Vangelis  left  in  exile.   He  created
Aphrodite's  Child  in  Paris  together  with the singer Demis Roussos.  They
would  become an international success, especially with the double album 666.
The  group  breaks  up  in  1971 and Vangelis starts his solo career.  But he
never really gave up the interaction between musicians playing in a group and
on  his  records,  he  would be surrounded by accomplices who brought him the
music  of  a  rare instrument or simply the beauty of their voices.  Vangelis
also  represents  an  astonishing  suppleness  in his methods of working:  he
enjoys  his  solitary experiments as much as his collaborations, in which his
talent meets the talent of an other creator.

In  1974, people even thought he would become the new keyboardist of Yes; and
the  bacon of symphonic rock even did some repetitions with him.  --- Excerpt
from  'Galerij der Groten:  Vangelis' taken from 'De Wending':  At that time,
there  were  some  wild speculations about Vangelis replacing Rick Wakeman in
Yes.   Jon  Anderson,  who  had  been  a  friend  of  Vangelis'  for a while,
introduced  him to the band.  But when Vangelis saw the enormous drum set, he
couldn't  resist  and  played  a 15 minute solo.  A solo which wasn't easy to
forget.   It  rapidly  became clear that there wouldn't be much place for the
other  band members if they let Vangelis do his thing.  Clearly too much ego.
Afterwards,  he admitted that playing in a group wasn't quite his cup of tea;
he  didn't want to climb on stage each week and play the same keyboard pieces
over  and  over  again.   He already had changed his way of working to a more
creative  way.   ---  The  attempt  would  fail, but Vangelis started a solid
friendship with Jon Anderson:  it resulted in a series of astonishing albums:
SHORT  STORIES  (1979),  THE FRIENDS OF MR.  CAIRO (1981), PRIVATE COLLECTION
(1983)  and in 1990 Page of Life :  the listener can only be sensitive to the
great complicity of these two sacred monsters, who bring together the best of
their  talents  in  compositions  in which the play mingles with humor, great
virtuosity  and  perfect  efficiency.   Later  on,  the voice of Jon Anderson
accompanied  the  synths  of  Tangerine Dream (LEGEND) and, recently, Kitaro.
From  his  pop  roots,  Vangelis  also  kept his taste for a swinging kind of
music,  in  which  his latest solo album The City is a good example, with its
sometimes heavy rhythms and sounds of distorted guitars.

Without  doubt, one can show that an essential component in Vangelis's talent
came  from  those  years  of  formation:   the  sense  of  melody, so rare in
electronic  music,  which  unlaces  pertinent  recallable  lines  from  sonic
textures, which can be sung.


                             Music For The Image


A  man  of  collaborations,  Vangelis had to meet people working with images.
Frederic  Rossif  was  the essential man in this:  he permitted a new kind of
alliance between music and film and prepared the soundtracks which would make
the  glory  of  Vangelis.  L'Apocalypse Des Animaux, La Fete Sauvage, Ignacio
(Entends-Tu  Les Chiens Aboyer?), L'Opera Sauvage are the sonorous beacons of
a new way of filming the animal kingdom and creating poetry from it, dramatic
lyric  poetry.   Music  of  strong  emotions  and  moments  of grace, extreme
delicacy  of  sounds  and  notes  which  touch  every  chord  in our intimate
sensitivity:   in  the  animal  films of Rossif, the language is superfluous.
One  can  also  find  Vangelis  on  the soundtracks of CANTIQUE DES CREATURES
(dedicated to painting) and NUREMBERG A NUREMBERG (history of Nazism).

From  the  little screen to the big screen, it's just a step, but a giant one
for Vangelis.  The score for the Hugh Hudson movie Chariots of Fire earns him
an  Oscar  in  Hollywood  and  immediately a place in the very select club of
great soundtrack composers.  Vangelis had only followed his natural instinct,
letting  his  melodic  sense  loose, in order to mix the emotion of his music
with  the  emotion of the images.  Ridley Scott's Blade Runner allowed him to
make,  besides  some  strong  themes,  the  urban  obsessed atmosphere of the
futuristic  Los  Angeles,  oozing  through  and hazy.  A superb work, resting
unreleased  in  it's major part.  Which is also the case with Missing and The
Bounty, but not with Antarctica or 1492:  Conquest of Paradise (Ridley Scott,
1992) from which there were made albums.  One compilation Themes reunites the
best  pieces  from  these  different  soundtracks.   With  BITTER MOON (Roman
Polanski,  1992),  '1492' is the most recent work of Vangelis for the cinema,
symphonic  and lyric if you wish, with a visionary strength which solely fits
to that of the enlightened seaman Columbus.

If  Vangelis  brings  to  the  cinema,  the  quintessence  of his talent, and
tenfolds  the  poetry,  the  emotional  needs  of the images by using melodic
themes  which  haunt  the  spectator  for  a  long time, the cinema will also
influence his music.  One could say that all the albums with Jon Anderson and
discs  such  as  See  You  Later  or the The City are soundtracks of possible
movies,  with their plots, their sketches of scripts, their pieces of sonoric
atmospheres,  their references to the classics of cinema, seeing their noises
which  recall  the  golden  age  of  polar.  An other similarity could be the
predominant  role  of  an powerful kind of electronic music in which a lot of
times  Wagnerian  choirs  are  mixed:   the total releases a symphonic force,
which  doesn't  have  to  be envy of (= is not at all inferior to) that of an
acoustic orchestra; especially Mask (1985) and the last soundtracks.


                       The Synth Without The Technique


But,  one  can  not reduce Vangelis's work to his guidelines , pop music, the
collaborations,  his  work  for  the  movies  ...  Contrary to a good deal of
musicians  who  have  followed,  during their career, determinated aesthetics
(were  they  prisoners  of their machines?), Vangelis innovates, experiments,
moves:   in  short, he explores and discovers.  Without doubt because he is a
musician,  more  than  he  is a real synthesizer player, whom he blames their
computer  interfaces  which  deprive  the  musician a part of his creativity.
Vangelis never [ab-]used the mystification of technology.  And paradoxically,
he  is one of the people who have used the greatest spectrum of possibilities
of  creating music offered by synthesizers.  Heaven and Hell, Albedo 0.39 and
Spiral  explore  some of the royal roads of the electronic music, floating or
sequenced,  but always showing an undeniable originality in proportion to the
other gourous of the genre.

In  1978,  with Beaubourg, Vangelis even adventures into the electro-acoustic
abstraction,  creating  the  most  anti- commercial music possible, but of an
fascinating beauty:  rarely ever has the sound of synths been materialized in
a  visual  way like this, combining, crossing, flying away, flickering.  That
visionary  hymn  to  modernity needs no envy of the work done at the IRCAM or
GRM,  and  it  has  a  human  part.  Invisible Connections in 1985, which was
released  on  the  prestigeous  label  Deutsche  Grammophone,  testifies  the
acknowledgement of Vangelis in the world of contemporary music.  But far from
locking himself up in a room, he opens new doors, creates an imaginary orient
with  China,  explores  the  poetry  of  minimalism with Soil Festivities and
rediscovers  in  1987  the  pleasure of playing synthesizers in a direct way,
while  the  refinement of studio technics and the explosion of music software
are influencing the creation methods of electronic musicians in depth.

Vangelis is most probably above all the power of an intuition which has tried
to  destroy all barriers between the idea and its execution:  it's the weight
of the hands, the instinct of the gesture, the core of the sound, the buttons
of  the CS80 which react by osmosis on the spirit of the composer, the direct
recording,  the  first take which releases the most strong and right emotion,
the  absolute  sincerity  of  a kind of music which is the mirror of the mind
instead of that of the machines.


The Interview

            The Navigations of Vangelis

---        
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
