Vangelis Papathanassiou

by Bob Doerschuk
Keyboard Magazine
August, 1982

        

                                 Background


Winning the academy award for Best Soundtrack marks a milestone in the career
of Evangelos Papathanassiou, known for years to his fans and now to the world
by  the  name  of  Vangelis (pronounced, incidentally, with a hard 'g', as in
agree).   But  more  than  that,  it  has  a special meaning for the world in
general.   Not  only  does  it  take  the  synthesizer  one step further as a
principal  compositional and orchestral tool in movie scoring, the Oscar also
signifies its undisputed arrival in the community of instruments.

The ascendancy of Vangelis, a self-taught artist whose melodic and colorative
gifts  soar  unencumbered  by  his inability to read music, demonstrates that
synthesizers,   like  pianos,  violins,  and  every  other  accepted  Western
instrument,  can  cater  to  any and all compositional schools.  Wendy Carlos
takes  center  stage  in  adapting  them  to  the  precise demands of Baroque
performance,   and  Kraftwerk  pioneers  their  application  to  a  blend  of
neo-Futurism  and  rock, but Vangelis is the great Romantic, the inheritor of
mid-nineteenth-century  approaches to lush mixtures of sound and the sweeping
thematic line.  He is, compositionally, the electronic Tchaikovsky.

It is another reflection of the times that Vangelis has done what he has done
without  the  benefit  of a formal musical education.  The great composers of
the past generally could not have written full scores without having had some
basic  grounding  in  the complexities of transferring their inner music onto
paper  effectively  enough to bring the sounds out into the open.  But in his
London  studio, surrounded by banks of keyboards, percussion instruments, and
recording  apparatus,  Vangelis  is  able to let his imagination run directly
onto  tape,  improvising  the  basic  melodic  track  first, then augmenting,
altering, and enhancing as his mood dictates.

Some  traditionalists  in  the  musical  world  complain  that  the impact of
technology  has  been  to  drain music of its life forces; they fear that the
process  of  filtering their expression through electronics will somehow move
it  further  from  the  fingertip  immediacy  to which acoustic musicians are
accustomed.   This  may  be  true  in the work of certain artists, but to the
general public Vangelis is surely the first clear and undeniable exception to
this   idea.   This  burly  bearded  Greek  expatriate  is  no  white-smocked
technician;  he  is  as emotional in his conversation as in his art, at times
verging on the mystical in his expostulations on the relationship between his
music  and  his  equipment.   He, perhaps more than any other synthesist, has
demonstrated  that  technology  can  be  brought  to  the service of romantic
expression.

Though  he  seldom  performs  live  these  days,  preferring  to spin complex
synthesized  webs in the shelter of his studio, Vangelis has been through the
pop  star  experience.   At  one  point,  he was even invited to replace Rick
Wakeman  in  Yes,  a  post many multikeyboardists would have killed for.  Yet
Vangelis  turned it down, since the pressures of fame, and the compromises it
would have demanded on his work, were unacceptable to him.

For  similar  reasons  he  is  somewhat uncomfortable with his Academy Award.
Proud  as  he  is  of  Chariots  of  Fire  ,  Vangelis does not see it as his
high-water  mark.   Music  to  him is not a flood, a contest to pile one wave
higher  that  the  next  against  some  measure  of  public  acceptance.   In
Vangelis's  eyes,  it  is  more  of  a river, a steady stream of inspiration,
twisting  here,  falling  there--perhaps  to accommodate dramatic action in a
film,  for example--but always flowing outward, from the heart.  If the Oscar
seems  to  represent  a standard for him to beat in his future work, Vangelis
may well at times wonder whether he would have been better off without it.

Vangelis  was  born  in Volos, Greece, and raised in Athens, 200 miles to the
south.   He  began  experimenting  with  music with music at the age of four,
composing his first piece (for piano) and exploring other, more unusual sound
sources by playing with radio interference and stuffing the family piano with
nails  and  kitchen  pans.   Attempts  to subject him to piano lessons proved
fruitless;  an  indifferent  student,  Vangelis  preferred developing his own
ideas  to  playing  those dreamed up by someone else in some distant time and
place.

Rock  attracted  him  at  an  early age.  At 18 he acquired his first Hammond
organ, and soon formed a group with some student friends.  Called Formynx, it
quickly  became  one  of the top bands of the early '60s in Greece.  However,
partly because of limited opportunities for musical progress in his homeland,
and partly because of the ominous political atmosphere stirred up by the 1968
Greek military coup, Vangelis packed up and moved to Paris at 25.

There  he  formed  another  band,  Aphrodite's Child, which also featured the
popular singer Demis Roussos.  Their theatrical style of progressive rock fit
in  perfectly  with  European  tastes  at that time, and with their major hit
record,  "Rain and Tears," they became one of the top bands on the continent.
Vangelis  enjoyed  him success at first, but soon found his interest shifting
away  from  the rock arena.  He began working with French television and film
directors  on  his  first  soundtracks,  including  the  music  for  Frederic
Roussif's Apocalypse Des Animaux and Opera Sauvage.

By  the time of his move to London in the mid-'70s, Vangelis was already well
on  his  way  toward  his  goal of building a self-contained music studio, or
"laboratory,"  as  he  calls  it.   Today it sits in London, tucked away near
Marble  Arch behind an unobtrusive side-street door.  Inside, up some stairs,
it  unfolds  into  two enormous rooms.  The ceilings tower overhead, dark and
indistinct,  but a wonderland of keyboards and equipment spreads out brightly
below.   A simple walk-around tour offers a taste of the Vangelis arsenal:  a
Minimoog, Yamaha CS-40M synthesizer, Roland CSQ-600 digital sequencer, Yamaha
CP-80 electric grand, Roland Compuphonic synthesizer, modified vintage Fender
Rhodes  electric  piano,  CSQ-600  digital  sequencer, Roland VP-330 electric
piano,  Roland CR-5000 Compu rhythm, Yamaha CS-80 synthesizer, E-mu Emulator,
Sequential Circuits Prophet-5 and Prophet-10, Simmons SDSV drum machine, Linn
LM-1 drum computer, Roland JP-4, nine-foot Steinway grand piano, Yamaha GS-2,
24-track  Quad-8  Pacifica  mixing  console,  and  an RSF one-octave Blackbox
synthesizer.  And, on an elevated platform overlooking the whole array, three
timpani, a trap drum set, and rows of gongs, chimes, and exotic bells.

Of course, the laboratory is never quite finished.  New additions come along,
old instruments are stored.  But despite the changes, Vangelis is comfortable
here.   He  visits  with  friends  amidst  this  maze  of hardware, playfully
punctuates his conversation with rim shots on a nearby snare drum, and ambles
from  one keyboard to the next, trying out new sounds, musing over new ideas,
and storing them on tape.  This is a home of sorts for Vangelis.  It was here
that  he  put together his popular solo albums, like Heaven and Hell , Albedo
0.39  ,  Spiral  , China , and See You Later , as well as his duo albums with
singer  Jon  Anderson  of  Yes  (SHORT STORIES in 1979 and THE FRIENDS OF MR.
CAIRO  in  1981),  his  1978  project with Greek actress Irene Papas who sang
traditional  Greek  tunes  to his less traditional accompaniment in ODES, and
his other film or television assignments, like the ethereal theme to the Carl
Sagan  PBS series COSMOS, the Costa-Gravas movie Missing, and his most recent
effort, the Ridley Scott adventure film Blade Runner.

And  it  was  here that KEYBOARD met Vangelis.  The bustle of the city seemed
far  away  as  we  settled done in the stillness to discuss his music and the
machines that make it.


The Interview

           Part I

           Part II

           Part III

---
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
