 
                                     ***

                              Soil Festivities

                               Vangelis speaks

                                     ***


With a host of solo albums, film soundtracks and collaborative efforts to his
credit,  Vangelis is one of the most influential synthesiser composers in the
history  of  modern  music.   Yet  until  now,  the  methods,  incidents  and
philosophies   behind   his   unique  compositional  style  have  remained  a
mystery...Dan Goldstein

Being  told  in  advance  of its whereabouts doesn't necessarily make finding
Vangelis' recording studio any easier.  It's located on the fourth floor of a
large,  unprepossessing,  and  unadorned  building in a tiny back street that
even  the  most  experienced of London's cab drivers has to consult his atlas
before  tracing, yet a good aim and a following wind would take a pebble from
one  of  its  windows to the ground beneath Marble Arch, one of the capital's
best known and most central landmarks.

The studio is called Nemo, and has been Vangelis' only place of work since he
came  to England from Paris over a decade ago.  Even before his soundtrack to
the  film Chariots of Fire put his name on the lips of cinema-goers the world
over  and  brought  him the vast collection of gold and silver discs that now
adorn   his   studio  walls.   Vangelis  was  an  electronic  composer  whose
brilliantly-conceived   and   originally-arranged   music   had   earned  him
considerable  respect  among the burgeoning synthesiser fraternity and a cult
following that grew in significance with the release of every album.

Yet in many ways, Nemo is an uninspiring place.  Iacking not only the mass of
hi-tech  hardware  now  considered  standard  in  commercial studios with any
serious  pretentions to the title 'State of the Art', but also the visual and
acoustic  decorations that make so many recording venues appear similar:  the
shag  pile carpet, the triple-glazed windows, the subtle back-lighting.  None
of  these  things  are  included  in  Nemo's specification, nor are they ever
likely  to  be.   In  many  ways,  Vangelis' workplace is a reflection of the
worker  himself.  Unconvinced by the worth of technology for its own sake and
unimpressed  by the conventions imposed by commerce and marketing, he remains
true  to  the  musical  philosophies that impressed themselves on him when he
first began tinkering with his parents' upright piano in his native Greece at
the age of four.


                                   History


'That  is  my  earliest  memory.  Playing piano, some percussion and whatever
else  that was available that made a noise.  Right from the start, I was only
interested  in  playing my own music, not other people's, and very early on I
had a desire to create my own studio in which to write my music.

'But  at  the  time I was very young and still at school.  I had a very goo"d
time  in  Greece, but after a while I felt I wanted to get away so I moved to
Paris,  where  I  worked  my  way up through the music industry to get enough
money to start a studio.'

While  in  Paris,  Vangelis  played  keyboards  in  a couple of rock bands he
considers  too  embarrassing  to  talk  about,  as  well  as meeting Yes' Jon
Anderson - who would later become the composer's partner in a number of joint
musical ventures - for the first time.

Around  1972,  he  made  the  move to London, where he signed his first major
recording contract (with RCA), the proceeds from which were used to construct
Nemo.  'That was not a very easy time for me', the composer reflects.  'I was
trying  to  put together the studio while recording my first album Heaven and
Hell,  at  the  same  time.   In  fact, the studio was Hell because there was
unmixed  concrete  everywhere,  builders  all  over the place making a lot of
noise, and next to all that, there I was, trying to finish my album.'

'There  was  no limit as to how much time I could spend working on the album,
but  I  felt  I  just  had  to  do  it, and in any case, the only way you can
complete  the  construction  of  a  studio  quickly is to start working in it
before  it's  actually finished.  If you try to wait before the building work
is complete, you'll end up waiting forever!'


                                 Electronics


In  the  technological  thunderstorm  that is 1984, it's perhaps difficult to
imagine how refreshing the delicate synth soundscapes of Heaven and Hell were
when  the  album was first released.  While the rest of Britain's pop culture
was  still  under  the  spell of Glam Rock and Glitter Power, Vangelis' first
vinyl  product  was  stunning  in  the  beauty  of  its  arrangement  and the
originality  of  its  structure.   Its creator used synthesizers as the sonic
base  for  his  compositions, and paradoxically, their solid state automation
added warmth and colour where most other contemporary music had none.

'Keyboards  have  always  been my main instrument and as soon as synthesizers
became  available,  I  had  to  have one.  My first electric instrument was a
Hammond  B3  organ.   At  the  time I got it, it provided me with a whole new
spectrum of sound (though obviously it had its limitations), and it served me
very well:  I drive all my instruments very hard, so that's a compliment.'

'My  first  synthesizer  was  a  Korg  700  monophonic.  It's a lovely little
machine.   I  still  have it - I never throw any keyboards away - and I still
enjoy playing It.  It's full of possibilities no organ can even approach.

'Once I'd got the Korg, new synthesizers started becoming available every six
months  or  so  and I used to:  go around the shops in London to see if there
was  any  synthesizer  offering  anything new.  Luckily.  I was in a position
where I had enough money to buy more or less what I wanted.'

Vangelis  describes  the  electronic  instrument  market during the early and
mid-seventies  as a 'low-key situation:  synthesizers were still quite basic,
but  they weren't really all that expensive, either'.  Nowadays, he views the
hardware scheme of things in a detached and philosophical manner rarely found
amongst the synthesizer world's elite.

'One  half  of  the market is now completely oriented towards domestic users,
with  the  Lowrey  and  Hammond  organs and little Casio keyboards, while the
other  side  embraces  the  Fairlights  and  Emulators  of this world.  Those
instruments  are  very sophisticated and - I think - unnecessarily expensive.
You  could  say  there's  also  a  kind  of  middle-ground  made  up  of  the
programmable  polysynths  from the likes of Roland and Korg, which I think is
going  through  a bit of a crisis at the moment.  Well, perhaps crisis is too
strong  a  word, but those polysynths haven't offered anything really new for
quite  a  while.'  Nothing really new?  What about MIDI?  What about the DX7?
Vangelis has sensed my disagreement.

'The DX7 is a nice, commercial little toy, at a reasonable price.  But it's a
little  bit  noisy, and I think the main reason so many people have bought it
is that it has such a clever library of sounds.  I don't want to criticize it
too  much  it's  good for studio work and nice to have around.  I've used one
myself  quite  a  bit, but to me it's the equivalent of what the Korg 700 was
ten  years  ago.   A  popular  instrument,  it is to the synth world what the
Renault  5 is to cars.  The Renault 5 was a hit because it was very versatile
and  you could park it anywhere .  .  .  What I really don't like about it is
that,  for  Yamaha, it's a step back from the CS80.' It transpires that there
is   no  instrument  Vangelis  admires  more  than  Yamaha's  late  seventies
synthesizer  flagship.   In  the  couple  of  hours  I  spoke  with  him, his
individual  command  of English was used to describe his feelings on the CS80
more than any other subject.

'The  most  important synthesizer in my career - and for me the best analogue
synthesizer  design  there  has  ever  been.   It was a brilliant instrument,
though  unfortunately  not a very successful one.  It needs a lot of practice
if  you want to be able to play it properly, but that's because it's the only
synthesizer  I  could  describe as being a real instrument, mainly because of
the keyboard - the way it's built and what you can do with it.'

'Today,  the only thing that matters to synth makers and synth players is the
supply  of different sounds - nothing else.  I think the manufacturers have a
responsibility  to  fit synthesizers with better keyboards so that people get
some  encouragement  to play better, because if all you do is use synths as a
source  of  sounds,  you'll never be a complete performer.  You'll never be a
player  in the practical sense, you won't acquire fast reactions.' But if the
likes  of  the  DX7  are  enough  for  most  players,  what's  wrong with the
manufacturers giving them what they want?

'Nothing, really.  I can understand why manufacturers do what they do for the
middle  ground, but that should only be one part of the market.  Take Yamaha,
which  is  an enormous company:  they can go ahead and sell DX7s, but there's
no reason why they can't also build an extraordinary instrument.  There's the
DX1,  but  to  me  that's a disappointment - awkward to use, and really quite
inflexible.   When  Yamaha created the CS80, I expected them to refine it and
improve it, make it lighter, put new sounds on it, but they didn't.  'I think
what  I'm  saying  will  make  more  sense in 10 or 15 years' time.  By then,
someone   somewhere  should  have  created  The  Instrument  -  the  ultimate
synthesizer.   I don't mean in terms of sound, because we can create anything
we  want  these  days,  but in terms of being an extension of the performer a
true performance instrument.

'To  explain,  if  you  look at the piano today, it's the result of about 2OO
years'  continuous  development,  but there's not one synthesizer that's been
developed  over  anything like that length of time.  When a synthesizer comes
out  it's  Top  of the Pops for two years, then it's scrapped and replaced by
another one with more memories or whatever.  When manufacturers stop adopting
that  attitude,  that's  when  they'll  get  closer  to  creating the sort of
instrument I 'm after - a tune performance synthesizer.  '

So  we're  still  quite  a long way from that?  'Well, nothing since the CS80
that I've used can act as a natural extension of a player's ability.  Nothing
can  be  as  immediate.   The situation is even worse now with the arrival of
computers.'


                                  Computers


Aha!   Now  we  come  to  the  real  bone  of  contention.  It seems computer
technology  doesn't  really fit into Vangelis' scheme of things at all.  He's
used  them,  of  course, as and when they've become available, but he remains
unconvinced  by their usefulness as performance instruments, while grudgingly
acknowledging the enormity of their sonic potential.

'In  terms  of communication, computers are the worst thing that has happened
for  the performing musician.  Why?  Because you have to learn to talk to the
computer.   Having  to  talk  to a piece of equipment moves you one step away
from  spontaneous creation, things are no longer immediate.  When you want to
play  a  piano, you just sit down and play it - you don't have to talk to it.
You  don't  have  to say give me some sustain here', but unfortunately that's
exactly what you have to do with the Fairlight, for example.

'Of  course,  if  you  take  the  time  to program computers you can do quite
incredible things, but you still lose the immediate contact and response.  In
that  respect,  all  the  new digital and computer instruments are a failure.
'The  one  computer  instrument  I've  used  a great deal is the Emulator.  I
wasn't expecting much from the Mk I because .  .  .  well, because it was the
first.   It had its problems but I could understand that, and although it was
primitive  it was a very useful instrument.  But again, the new Emulator is a
bit  of a let-down to me.  They should have fitted a bigger, better keyboard,
and  made  it  more  human,  easier  to  use.   Still, I don't want to be too
critical.   The  sound  is  much,  much  better now, and it's very useful for
studio work.

OK,  End  of Hardware Story.  Vangelis' tirade against what the latest modern
technology  can  offer the performance-oriented musician has been a surprise.
It's  certainly  strange,  the idea of a man who received no formal classical
training  whatsoever,  who  has  access  to the most sophisticated electronic
instruments money can buy, putting immediacy and response highest on his list
of synthesizer priorities.

Then  again,  perhaps  it shouldn't be so surprising.  After all, comparisons
between  Vangelis  musical  output  and  those  of  his contemporaries almost
invariably  show his to be the less contrived, the more natural-sounding, the
more immediate.  And that's something that's true of his solo work (he refers
to  it  as  'pure' music), his collaborations with the likes of Jon Anderson,
and his scores for film, ballet and opera.


                      How does he keep up the standard?


'Well,  I think it's important not to get stuck doing one thing all the time.
For  instance,  since  I  did Chariots of Fire I've had about 50 offers to do
soundtracks  every  year, but I'd rather not do too many because I don't want
to  be  known  only  as a filmscore composer.  The most important thing for a
composer  is  to  have  the  freedom  to become involved in any musical field
-that's the most inspiring way of working.

'Of  course,  inspiration can come in different ways, depending on what field
you're working in.  When I 'm writing music for a film, inspiration will come
from  the  subject  matter  and  visual  images, because I don't agree to any
offers of film work unless I believe I can add another dimension to the film.
But if I'm writing music purely for myself, inspiration comes naturally, from
everything  around.   I  absorb  every  experience  in life, every situation.
Because  anything  can become a source of inspiration - positive or negative.
In  general  I 'm influenced more by everyday concepts - nature, the city and
so  forth  -  than  by  hearing other pieces of music.  Neither do I find any
special  inspiration from working in a studio.  Obviously it makes life a lot
easier to have 24 tracks to record on, and I use the studio as a tool to help
in  the writing process.  I see the mixing desk really as another instrument,
the  conductor  for  all  the others.  But although the tape recorder and the
console  are just as important as the keyboards, I haven't equipped my studio
with  a  lot  of hi-tech effects:  I'd rather spend time searching through my
sound library to get the exact colour I want.'


                                Commercialism


The  longer  our  conversation  continued,  the  more  it became obvious that
Vangelis  regards  his own commercial achievements with amusement rather than
excitement.   It's clear that he has little time for what he calls 'junk food
music',  or records that are made merely to fulfill commercial ambitions, and
dreads  the  thought  that  he  might one day be forced into a similar way of
working.

'For  every album I've ever made, I've written many times more music than has
actually  been  released,  and the way I choose which music appears is almost
totally random, but one thing I have never done is to make music for the sake
of commercialism.

'I  write  music primarily for myself, though it's lovely, everybody goes out
and  buys  the records.  My new album - Soil Festivities - was made because I
wanted  to  make  music,  not  sell  a  million  records.  I don't think it's
possible  to guarantee commercial success for an album anyway, because nobody
really knows what is commercial and what isn't.  Even if I went out of my way
to  make  an  album  that  was  more accessible to the public, that would not
guarantee its commercial success.'

Soil  Festivities  is  in  fact  Vangelis'  first album of 'pure' music to be
released  for  some  while,  though  as  this conversation has already shown,
that's  unlikely  to  be due to lack of endeavor on Vangelis' part.  An album
inspired  -  more  than  any  of  its predecessors - by the beauty of nature,
Festivities   is   a   celebration   of  the  natural  elements,  with  their
characteristic  sounds  sampled  by  Emulator,  mixed  in with 'conventional'
polysynth  sounds, and occasionally backed by Vangelis' now familiar acoustic
percussion patterns.

And  although  it's  unlikely to match the commercial success achieved by his
film  soundtracks  and  Anderson singles, Vangelis can draw satisfaction from
the fact that his latest album reaffirms his position as a leading electronic
arranger  and a composer of the highest caliber.  Perhaps more excitingly, it
may  well  be that his own happiness at how Festivities has turned out brings
him  back  to  the concert arena, something he's visited all too infrequently
during his long career.


                                Playing Live


'From  the  creative  point  of  view, live music is always different to what
appears  on  a record because everything is spontaneous and you're influenced
as  a  performer  by your audience.  The negative aspect of live work is that
the audience expects to be entertained, and not only that, the record company
and  the  promoters expect you to be successful.  But to me, the theater is a
meeting   place   where  something  unpredictable  happens,  not  necessarily
successful,  maybe  pleasant, maybe not.  That's how I think a concert should
be,  but  in  reality  things have to be planned down to the last detail, you
have  to  rehearse  with  other  musicians  so the scope for improvisation is
lessened,  and  these things prevent a concert from being a truly spontaneous
affair.   In  a  way,  this reality makes me less keen to do concerts, but in
essence I do like playing.  I enjoy the risk.'

So the idea of live improvisation is important?

'Yes.   I'd  really  like to do some concerts of completely improvised music,
but  one of the reasons for doing a concert is to experience the enjoyment of
the  people  there,  so  you  have to include excerpts of music from previous
albums  because  they  want  to  hear  something  they already know and like.
There's  nothing  wrong  with  limiting  your  spontaneous  playing  to  just
improvising  around old themes, but what is wrong is playing a concert solely
to  promote a certain record.  I've never done a concert tour just to promote
Heaven  and  Hell  or  Chariots  Of Fire or anything like that.  That sort of
thing seems pointless to me.'


                              Closing Comments


Returning  to  the  subject  of  the  sound-generating  hardware  that's  now
available to the modern musician, it seemed reasonable to inquire whether the
magician  had  ever  considered  delving  inside,  say, a CS8, in the hope of
bringing it up to the standards of his 'ideal instrument'.

'Well,  to  be  honest I don't think it's necessary to find out how pieces of
equipment  work.   I would prefer to know how music works, or how my body and
my mind work.  After all, it's more useful to know how to drive a car than it
is to know what makes it go.

'Of course it's important to know certain things about a machine, but I don't
need  to  be able to build my own synthesizer.  It strikes me that the people
who  do  build  them don't know how to play them, so I'd rather find out more
about playing.

'That's  probably  why I don't rush out to buy all the latest technology.  In
fact,  I  find it quite boring at the moment, simply because so much of it is
just  technology - nothing more.  I buy something if it really appeals to me,
if I think it will add another dimension to what I have at the moment.  Don't
misunderstand  me:   I  think  it  is  important  to  have  as many different
instruments  as  possible,  with different libraries of sounds, and different
characteristics.   But some people adopt the attitude that if they had enough
money  they  could have all the machinery they wanted, and that would somehow
make their music better.  That's simply not the case.

'The way I see it is that the ear works on several different levels, like the
eye.  If you're trained to look carefully you see more than people who aren't
and  the  same goes for the ear.  If your ears are well-trained, you can hear
not  just  a  range  of  pitches but other sounds that most people just miss.
'This  is  another  reason  why  it's  important  not to become obsessed with
technology.   You've  got  to  remember  that  however a sound is generated -
acoustically,  electronically, digitally - it's still just a sound, a part of
nature.'

There  is  a  trace  of  sadness  in Vangelis' expression as he contemplates,
perhaps,  a musical future dominated by the will of technicians and marketing
men.

There's  no  doubt  that  Vangelis has done as much to bring electronic music
into  the realms of public acceptance as anybody else.  All he desires now is
for  those  who  design  electronic  musical instruments to take the needs of
musicians  into  account a little more than they seem to be doing at present.
And there aren't many more honorable desires than that.


---
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
