Vangelis

by Richard Buskin
Sound On Sound Magazine
July 1990

        

                                 Background


"In  over  20  years  there is not one synthesizer that has become a classic.
Nobody  created one as a performance instrument instead of as a computer, and
then  developed  it.   I'm not saying the computer approach is bad, but there
should  have  been  a  balance  between  the two.  Today everything is geared
towards  pop  music,  and whilst I'm all for pop music I'm against this being
the only consideration."

Vangelis  is not a man given to making light and generalised statements about
the  current state of his art.  Music has been his life and he a part of that
music,  ever  since  he began composing at the age of four, and from the very
start he strayed from the conventional and strived for the unimaginable.

Through  a  list  of  17  solo albums stretching back to 1972, as well as two
ballets,  five  collaborations  with Jon Anderson, several television themes,
and   film   soundtracks   that   include  Blade  Runner,  Missing,  and  the
Oscar-winning  Chariots  of  Fire,  Vangelis  has  continually  explored  the
creation  of  musical  forms  via  the  integration  of the acoustic with the
electronic.

Uninhibited  neither  in  terms  of  his  work  methods  nor  in terms of his
geographical location, Vangelis has brought his unique talent to wide-ranging
projects  around the globe, moving from his native Greece to Paris during the
late  1960s,  on to London - and his own studio/music laboratory - in the mid
70s, and across Europe and the States since the mid-80s.

Taking  his collection of instruments with him as he travels, he is currently
located  back  in Paris, where he chooses to employ his synth setup either in
his hotel suite or in the larger confines of Mega Studios.

Heavily  involved,  as  usual,  in  his  life-long programme of making music,
Vangelis  took  time out recently to talk not only about his own work methods
but,  more  specifically, about his views on the current technological scene.
Not  at all interested in a self-promotional exercise, his sole desire was to
express  his  forthright  opinions  about  contemporary electronic keyboards;
their design, manufacture, marketing, and utilisation.


The Interview

           Part I

           Part II

---
Ed: Kenneth C. Nilsen
