THE ALLEGED SUICIDE NOTE
Friday, June 17

While police are searching for O. J., Simpson friend
Robert Kardashian reads the 700 word long letter
Simpson has sent him before disappearing:

To whom it may concern.

First, everyone understand, I have nothing to do with
Nicole압 murder. I loved her. I always have and I always
will. If we had a problem, it압 because I loved her so
much. Recently we came to the understanding that for now
we were not right for each other. At least for now. Despite
our love we were different, and that압 why we mutually
agreed to go our separate ways.

It was tough splitting for a second time, but we both knew
that it was for the best. Inside, I had no doubt that in
the future we would be close friends or more. Unlike what
has been written in the press, Nicole and I had a great
relationship for most of our lives together. Like all
long-term relationships, we had a few downs and ups.

I took the heat New Year압 1989 because that압 what I was
supposed to do. I did not plead no contest for any other
reason but to protect our privacy, and was advised it would
end the press hype.

I don앖 want to belabor knocking the press but I can앖
believe what is being said. Most of it is totally made up.
I know you have a job to do but as a last wish, please,
please, please leave my children in peace. Their lives will
be tough enough.

I want to send my love and thanks to all my friends. I앐
sorry I can앖 name every one of you, especially A. C. Man,
thanks for being in my life. The support and friendship I
received from so many: Wayne Hughes, Lewis Markes, Frank
Olson, Mark Packer, Bender, Bobby Kardashian. I wish we had
spent more time together in recent years. My golfing
buddies, Hoss, Alan Austin, Mike Craig, Bender, Wyler,
Sandy, Jay, Donnie, thanks for all the fun.

All my teammates over the years, Reggie, you were the soul
of my pro career. Ahmad, I never stopped being proud of
you. Marcus, you았e got a great lady in Catherine, don앖
mess it up. Bobby Chandler, thanks for always being there.
Skip and Cathy, I love you guys, without you I never would
have made it through this far.

Marguerite, thanks for the early years. We had some fun.
Paula, what can I say? You are special. I앐 sorry I앐 not
going to have, were not going to have our chance. God
brought you to me, I now see. As I leave, you앏l be in my
thoughts.

I think of my life and feel I았e done most of the right
things. So why do I end up like this? I can앖 go on. No
matter what the outcome, people will look and point. I
can앖 take that. I can앖 subject my children to that. This
way they can move on and go on with their lives.

Please, of I았e done anything worthwhile in my life, let
my kids live in peace from you, the press.

I았e had a good life. I앐 proud of how I lived. My mama
taught me to do unto others. I treated people the way I
wanted to be treated. I았e always tried to be up and
helpful, so why is this happening? I앐 sorry for the
Goldman family. I know how much it hurts.

Nicole and I had a good life together. All this press talk
about a rocky relationship was no more than what every
long-term relationship experiences. All her friends will
confirm that I have been totally loving and understanding
of what she압 been going through.

At times I have felt like a battered husband or boyfriend
but I loved her, make that clear to everyone. And I would
take whatever it took to make it work.

Don앖 feel sorry for me. I았e had a great life, great
friends. Please think of the real O. J. and not this lost
person. Thanks for making my life special. I hope I helped
your압.

Peace and love,

   O. J.
END
