THE DAY OF THE MURDERS
Sunday, June 12

Nicole Brown Simpson spends the afternoon with her
ex-husband, later dines at her favorite restaurant
"Mezzaluna", together with her family, including her mother
Juditha Brown.

At 9.35 pm Juditha Brown calls "Mezzaluna" to ask if she
had left her glasses there. The glasses are found and
put into an envelope. At 9.40 Juditha calls Nicole to
tell her that her glasses have been found and that they
are kept at the restaurant. A few minutes later Nicole
talks to her friend Ron Goldman, a waiter at "Mezzaluna",
who volunteers to take the glasses to Nicole. He leaves
shortly afterwards, at approximately 9.50 pm.

O. J. Simpson plans to leave on a trip to Chicago this
evening. He and a friend go out for a Hamburger with
Simpson큦 Rolls-Royce. They return from Mc Donald큦 at
9.35.

At around 10.15, Pablo Fenjves, a neighbor of Nicole,
hears a dog bark. 45 Minutes later, when goes to bed, the
dog is still barking. At 10.30, another neighbor, Steven
Schwab, spots a lonely dog in the neighborhood of Nicole큦
residence. He notices that it has blood on its paws and
its legs. The dog later turns out to be Nicole큦 white
Akita "Kato".

Meanwhile, over at O. J.큦 estate, the limousine driver who
is to take O. J. to the airport arrives. The time: 10.25 pm
No one appears to be home, so he waits till 10.40 before
ringing the intercom buzzer. No one answers. In the
meantime, Kato Kaelin, a friend of O. J. who stays at the
guest house, is on the phone talking to his girlfriend. At
about 10.45 he hears three loud thumps on the wall. In the
$Preliminary Hearing he describes what he heard. %Play Sample@@ NOISE
After a few minutes he grasps a flashlight and goes out to
investigate. At his point the limousine driver spots
someone inside the compound carrying a flashlight. Almost
simultaneously he sees a black person, about 6 feet tall,
$쬬rossing the driveway@@ ESTAT towards the  house. Less than a
minute later, O. J. answers the intercom, claiming he has
overslept and just got out of the shower.
As Kato Kaelin searches for the source of the noise, he
notices the limo driver, still waiting outside. He opens
the gate for him and the limousine is pulling in.
Only minutes later, O. J. heads for the airport for his
long scheduled flight to Chicago.

At midnight, a neighbor of Nicole Simpson follows the
dog which leads her to a body near a sidewalk leading to
Nicole Simpson큦 residence. Police find a second body, both
of them lying in a river of blood. Nicole Simpson has
suffered knife-wounds on her arms, apparently from fighting
her attacker. Her black dress is soaked with blood. Paw
trails are found, leading away from her.
Near Ronald Goldman큦 body, police find an envelope
containing Nicole Simpson큦 mother큦 glasses. Also found,
a set of keys, a cap, and a single leather glove.
Inside the house, still sleeping, Nicole and O. J.
Simpson큦 small children.

Police quickly rush to O. J. Simpson큦 estate to, as they
now claim, notify him of the killings. Detective Mark
Fuhrman spots a small blood-stain on Simpson큦 Ford Bronco.
As Police decide to go in without a search warrant, Fuhrman
jumps the wall and opens the hydraulic gate. It is also
Fuhrman who discovers the bloody glove behind the guest
house.

When Simpson returns from Chicago the next morning, he is
$handcuffed and taken downtown for questioning. 쬢how Graphic@@ ARRST
Police discover a cut on Simpson큦 left middle finger. He
claims he cut his finger on a broken glass in Chicago after
learning of the killings. After three hours he is released.
END
