911 CALL BY NICOLE BROWN SIMPSON
Police released these 911 Calls, taped October 25, 1993.

Nicole:     Can  you send someone to my house?
Dispatcher: What압 the problem there?
Nicole:     My ex-husband, or my husband, just broke into
            my house, and he압 ranting and raving outside
            in the front yard.    
Dispatcher: Has he been drinking or anything?
Nicole:     No, but he압 crazy.
Dispatcher: Did he hit you?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: Do you have a restraining order against him?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: What is your name?
Nicole:     Nicole Simpson.

The dispatcher puts out a domestic violence call for any
patrol car to respond to Nicole압 address in Brentwood.
$Less than a minute later, she calls back. %Play Sample@@ 911C1

Dispatcher: 911 Emergency.
Nicole:     Could you get someone over here now, to 325
            Gretna Green. He압 back. Please.
Dispatcher: OK. What does he look like?
Nicole:     He압 O. J. Simpson. I think you know his
            record. Could you just send somebody over here?
Dispatcher: What is he doing there?
Nicole:     He just drove up again. Could you just send
            somebody over?
Dispatcher: What is he driving?
Nicole:     He압 in a white Bronco, but first of all he
            broke the back door down to get in.
Dispatcher: Wait a minute, what압 your name?
Nicole:     Nicole Simpson.
Dispatcher: OK. Is he the sportscaster or whatever?
Nicole:     Yeah.
Dispatcher: Wait a minute. Were sending the police. What
            is he doing? Is he threatening you?
Nicole:     He압 fucking going nuts.
Dispatcher: OK. Has he threatened you in any way or is he
            just harassing you?
Nicole:     Youre going to hear him in a minute. He압
            about to come in again.
Dispatcher: OK, just stay on the line.
Nicole:     I don앖 want to stay on the line. He압 going to
            beat the shit out of me.
Dispatcher: Wait a minute, just stay on the line so we can
            know what압 going on until the police get
            there, OK? OK, Nicole?
Nicole:     (sigh)
Dispatcher: Just a moment. Does he have any weapons?
Nicole:     I don앖 know. He went home. Now he압 back. The
            kids are up there sleeping and I don앖 want
            anything to happen.
Dispatcher: OK, just a minute, is he on drugs or anything?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: Just stay on the line in case he comes in. I
            need to hear what압 going on.
Nicole:     Can you hear him outside?
Dispatcher: Is he yelling?
Nicole:     Yep.
Dispatcher: OK. Has he been drinking?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: OK. (talking to police units) All units: More
            on the domestic violence at 325 South Gretna
            Green Way. The suspect has returned in a white
            Bronco. Monitor comments. Incident 48231.
            OK, Nicole?
Nicole:     (sigh)
Dispatcher: Is he outdoors?
Nicole:     (sigh) He압 in the back yard.
Dispatcher: He압 in the back yard?
Nicole:     Screaming at my roommate about me and at me.
Dispatcher: OK. What is he saying?
Nicole:     Oh, something about some guy I know and hookers
            and keys and I started this --- (expletive
            deleted) before and ... And it압 all my fault
            and now what am I going to do, get the police
            in this? And the whole thing. It압 all my
            fault. I started this before. (sigh) brother.
            (inaudible) kids (inaudible).
Dispatcher: Okay, you don앖 need any paramedics or
            anything?
Nicole:     (sigh)
Dispatcher: OK. You just want him to leave?
Nicole:     My door, he broke the whole back door in.
Dispatcher: And then he left and came back?
Nicole:     He came and he practically knocked my
            upstairs door down, but he pounded it and he
            screamed and hollered, and I tried to get him
            out of the bedroom because the kids are
            sleeping in there.
Dispatcher: OK.
Nicole:     He wanted somebody압 phone number and I gave
            him my phone book or I put my phone book down
            to write down the phone number that he wanted,
            and he took my phone book with all my stuff
            in it.
Dispatcher: OK. So basically you guys have just been
            arguing?
 (Simpson is yelling inaudibly)
Dispatcher: Is he inside right now?
Nicole:     Yeah.
 (Simpson still yelling)
Dispatcher: OK. Just a moment.
 (More inaudible yelling by Simpson)
Dispatcher: Is he talking to you?
Nicole:     Yeah.
Dispatcher: Are you locked in a room or something?
Nicole:     No. He can come right in. I앐 not going where
            the kids are because the kids ...
Dispatcher: Do you think he압 going to hit you?
Nicole:     I don앖 know.
Dispatcher: Stay on the line. Don앖 hang it up, OK?
Nicole:     OK. (inaudible)
Dispatcher: What is he saying?
Nicole:     What?
Dispatcher: What is he saying?
Nicole:     What else.
 (Sound of police radio traffic)
Nicole:     O. J., O. J., the kids are sleeping.
 (More yelling)
Dispatcher: He압 still yelling at you?
 (Continuous yelling, Nicole sobbing into phone)
Dispatcher: Is he upset with something that you did?
Nicole:     A long time ago. It always comes back.
Dispatcher: Is your roommate talking to him?
Nicole:     No one can talk, listen to him.
Dispatcher: Does he have any weapons with him right now?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: OK. Where is he standing?
Nicole:     In the back doorway, in the house.
Dispatcher: OK.
O. J.:      I don앖 give a --- (expletive deleted)
            anymore ...
Nicole:     Would you just please, O. J. O. J., O. J.,
            could you please (inaudible) Please leave.
O. J.:      ... I앐 not leaving ...
Nicole:     Please leave. O. J., please, the kids, the
            kids are sleeping, please.
Dispatcher: Is he leaving?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: Does he know youre on the phone with police?
Nicole:     No.
Dispatcher: Where are the kids at right now?
Nicole:     Up in my room.
Dispatcher: Can they hear him yelling?
Nicole:     I don앖 know. The room압 the only one that압
            quiet ... god.
Dispatcher: Is there someone up there with the kids?
Nicole:     No.
 (Yelling continues)
Dispatcher: What압 he saying now? Nicole, you still on
            the line?
Nicole:     Yeah.
Dispatcher: Do you still think he압 going to hit you?
Nicole:     I don앖 know. He압 going to leave. He just
            said that. He just said he needs to leave.
O. J.:      ... Hey! I can read this bullshit all week in
            the National Enquirer. Her words exactly.
            What, who got that, who?
Dispatcher: Are you the only one in there with him?
Nicole:     Right now, yeah. And he압 also talking to my,
            the guy who lives out back is just standing
            there. He came home.
Dispatcher: Are you arguing with him, too?
Nicole:     No! Absolutely not!
Dispatcher: OK, OK.
Nicole:     That압 not arguing.
Dispatcher: Yeah. Has this happened before or no?
Nicole:     Many times.
Dispatcher: OK. The police should be on the way. It just
            seems like a long time because it압 kind of
            busy in that division right now.
 (More yelling)
Dispatcher: (to police) Regarding Gretna Green Way. The 
            Suspect is still there and yelling very loudly.
Officer:    (on police radio) 52 on Gretna Green.
Dispatcher: Is he still arguing?
 (Knock on the door)
Dispatcher: Was someone knocking on your door?
Nicole:     It was him.
Dispatcher: He압 knocking on your door?
Nicole:     There압 a locked bedroom and he압 wondering
            why.
Dispatcher: Oh, so he압 knocking on the locked door
Nicole:     Ywah. You know what, O. J.? That window above
            you is also open. Could you just go, please?
            Can I get off the phone?
Dispatcher: You want, you feel safe hanging up?
Nicole:     (inaudible)
Dispatcher: You want to wait till the police get there?
Nicole:     Yeah.
Dispatcher: Is he still arguing with you?
Nicole:     He압 moved a little (inaudible)
Dispatcher: But the kids are still asleep?
Nicole:     Yes. Theyre like rocks.
Dispatcher: What part of the house is he right now?
Nicole:     Downstairs.
Dispatcher: Downstairs?
Nicole:     Yes.
Dispatcher: And youre upstairs?
Nicole:     No. I앐 downstairs in the kitchen ... in the
            kitchen.
Dispatcher: Can you see the police, Nicole?
Nicole:     No, but I will go out there right now.
Dispatcher: OK. You want to go out there?
Nicole:     Yeah.
Dispatcher: OK. Hang up. OK.

Numerous times during this call O. J. Simpson can be heard
$yelling in the background. %Play Sample@@ 911C2
END
