OPENING STATEMENTS
The First Week of the Trial

Opening statements were scheduled for Monday, January 23.
But a number of issues had to be resolved first. Judge Ito
had to rule on the defenses request to let O. J. Simpson
speak during the defense압 opening statement. The judge
denied that, however he allowed the defense to show
Simpson압 injuries which they say would make it impossible
for him to commit this crime. In another ruling judge
Ito allowed the defense to mention Detective Fuhrman in
its opening statement.
 
After Judge Lance Ito had instructed the jury on Monday,
Tuesday finally brought what many people considered the
"beginning" of the trial, although technically it had
already started months earlier with jury selection.

Christopher Darden began the prosecution압 opening
statement by talking about O. J. and Nicole Simpson압
$relationship. He mentioned the @911 Calls@@ NICLE Nicole made
to police, drawing the picture of an abusive husband who
$killed his ex-wife out of jealousy. Quote: "He couldn앖
have her. And if he couldn앖 have her, he didn앖 want
anybody else to have her."

After Darden had established motive, Marcia Clark took
the podium and talked about the physical evidence: The
trail of blood leading from the crimescene to Simpson압
bedroom, linked by Simpson압 Ford Bronco.
The prosecution showed pictures of the bloody trail of
foot prints leading from the murder scene, blood spots on
the Bronco and others leading up Simpson압 driveway.
Also, scientific tests reveal that a blood spot on
Simpson압 socks matches his and another one Nicole압 blood.
Quote: "And the results of the analysis of that blood
confirms what the rest of the evidence will show: That on
June the 12, 1994, after a violent relationship in which
the defendant beat her, humiliated her, and controlled her,
after he took her youth, her freedom and her self-respect,
just as she tried to break free, Orenthal James Simpson
took her very life in what amounted to his final and his
ultimate act of control."
Marcia Clark also talked about the timeframe, alleging
that Simpson has had the opportunity to commit the
$murder. (Refer to @The Murder@@ MURDR for further information)
 
Also on this day, the face of a female black alternate
juror was broadcast accidentally. As the camera panned
left to Marcia Clark, the face of the alternate juror
appeared in the left bottom corner of the screen.
Although the camera operator noticed his mistake, the
kill-switch operator did not. After learning of the
incident, judge Lance Ito threatened to terminate live
coverage, but in his ruling on Wednesday decided not to.

Wednesday also brought opening statements by the defense.
Johnnie Cochran told the jury that blood found on Nicole
Simpson압 body points to another killer. He also
introduced several surprise witnesses, like Rosa Lopez,
who saw Simpson압 Ford Bronco parked at the mansion
the time of the murders. He also mentioned a witness
who saw four men running from the crime scene at 10.45.

The introduction of these new witnesses drew an angry
response by prosecutors. By California law the defense
would have been required to inform the prosecution of
their new evidence.

In another twist, Wednesday evening prosecutor William
Hodgman was hospitalized for chest pain and on Thursday
judge Ito recessed the court until Monday before the
Defense had been able to finish its opening statement.
END
