THE PROSECUTION큆 CASE
The Evidence Linking O. J. to the Crime

No Alibi             O. J. Simpson has no alibi between
                     9.40 and 10.56 pm when the limousine-
                     driver sees him.

The Blood Drops      Blood drops found on Nicole큦 driveway
                     that DNA-tests allegedly link to O. J.

The Break-Up Note    A note written by Nicole to O. J.,
                     found in O. J.큦 house.

The Bronco Contents  Searching the white Ford Bronco after
$                     @The Chase@@ CHASE police find $ 10.000 in
                     O. J.큦 pocket, O. J.큦 passport, a
                     gun and a false beard. This was not
                     revealed to the jury when the
                     prosecution presented its case.

The Cut              Police find a cut on Simpson큦 left
                     middle finger which he says he
                     suffered in Chicago from a broken
                     glass after learning of the killings.
                     However, there was no matching slice
                     found on the bloody glove found at
                     the crimescene.

History of Abuse     O. J.큦 history of spousal abuse as
$                     shown by the @911 Calls@@ NICLE made by
                     Nicole Brown Simpson.

The Knife            Testifying during the Preliminary
                     Hearing, the owner of "Ross Cutlery",
                     where O. J. Simpson bought a knife
                     six weeks before the killings.

The Pair of Gloves   One bloody glove is found at the
                     crimescene, near Ron Goldman큦 body.
                     Its right counterpart turns up on
                     Simpson큦 property, found by Detective
                     Mark Fuhrman behind the guesthouse,
                     just under the air conditioner. 

Telephone Records    Telephone records show that Nicole
                     was on the phone with her mother
                     around 10.00 pm.
END
