
If you have trouble with that your comp does'nt find your HD or CD at
first startup = you just get the bootscreen in your face, and you have
to do a reset to get it up and runnin',.. 

This is not only annoying, if you for instance have a BBS on that
machine, it simply wont start again in case of a brownout, totally
unacceptable IMHO.

Well, you could buy 3.1 ROMs to make it work, ( 3.1 gives a little more
time to the drives to get ready )  OR, you can build this little hack.
Its quite easy to build with a few common components.

How does it work then ?  
Well,.. it simply holds your Amiga in "resetmode" for a short time,
a few (adjustable) secs to give time to the drives to get ready.

Note that in some cases you also have to cut the first lead
( usually red ) in the IDE-cable because some drives wont spin up as 
long as the comp is in "resetmode".


Component list:  IC = 4093
                 C1 = 100nf
                 C2 = 10-22uf (pref. tantal.)
                 R1 = 10k
                 R2 = 10k
                 R3 = trimpot. about 470k-1m
                 T1 = BC547b or equal.
                 
Plus one IC-socket and a piece of "experimental-board" or similar.

When you have put it together, you can check if it works OK before
plugging it into the comp. Simply connect a volt-meter between +5
and reset, and then give it some power ( 3x1.5 V batteries will do )
After a short time, the V-meter should drop to zero. Adjust the time
with R3, about 4-5 secs should be enough.
( If necessary, you can change values of C2 and/or R3 )

You have to make three connections in your computer:
Ground and +5V, which you for instance can get from the powercable to
the Discdrive.  And then its the reset signal, which could be found
( in the A 1200 ) in the internal trapdoor slot, pin 128, 
or at the Key MPU, pin 38   ( see pic ).
Its a little tricky to connect the reset, but if you use a thin cable
and a small solder iron, it's a piece of cake.  

Maybe you already converted your A1200 to a tower, and made the
"keyboard hack", in this case you have all the necessary wires in your
keyboard, then if you make this thing small you can place it inside
the keyboard case.      nice huh ?   :)

Although we have build this, and used it with good results, we do
_not_ take any responsibilities if you fry your comp.

Have phun, and enjoy your AMIGA !


Author: Agne Ragnarsson / drpepper@algonet.se / CAFE 500 BBS 2:200/715

Thanx to: Krister Emtweden and Hakan Karlsson 4 peptalk/help.
