(March 20, 1998, A2000T hack version 1.1)

    This is an update document to my original A2000T.lha hack uploaded to
aminet quite a while ago. This is really just a small fix, I had forgotten
to connect Power Good to a +5V source in Figure 4. This resulted in no
power getting to the +5V_user line as the original diagram was done,
resulting in a motionless mouse pointer but working mouse buttons. I believe
this was the only problem that would show up with that, as I can find no
other usage of the +5V_user line other than the mouse (joystick) ports.
By connecting the Power Good to a +5V line and leaving the rest as it was in
the previous diagram version, everything is fine now. Also, for those with
an A2000 revision not having a J300, you might look into the file
Mix_and_Tick.lha on aminet, as it recreates the tick line circuitry as was
done in the A2000 power supply. I haven't seen it yet, but it's supposed to
work...

    Also, although not shown in the pictures, I have a few 1 inch square logo
things with the AMiGA logo (ala Escom) for those indentations in PC cases, I
would mail one to people interested, first come, first served, while
supplies last. These were printed with a color bubblejet, havee the red
square to dot the 'i', and are covered with clear laminating plastic.


    This document is a description of how I hacked my Amiga 2000(B) into a
standard PC full-tower case. First, I am not responsible for any damage incurred by 
anyone attempting to hack their computer in this manner. If anything goes wrong, it's 
your loss, so attempt this hack at your own risk. Disclaimers aside, here are the main 
problems I encountered with my case. 1: The 5.25" drive bays had a metal panel across 
the bottom, to which the 3.5" bays mounted to. This panel was in the way of fitting the 
motherboard. 2: The power supply unit was also in the way, it interfered with the 2000's 
video slot connector and other surrounding components. 3: The mounting holes were, 
of course, in standard PC hole locations. This document refers to the iff pictures 
included in the archive.


1:    OK, so this metal panel is in the same place I need my motherboard to be.     
(Figure 1)This one was relatively easy compared to the PSU hack. I simply cut out a 1 
inch wide strip from front to back in the bay. Luckily, the 3.5" bays mounted on the 
opposite side. I started the far right side flush with the motherboard mounting panel, and 
went as far left as I could without interfering with the 3.5" bay mounting. This gave me a 
1" wide hole, which is enough room for the motherboard and a VXL030 board which is 
boosted up to fit a MegaChip. (Figure 5) I have been using this configuration with no 
problems. I do have a PP&S 040/500 board which is intended to replace the VXL, but 
the physical arrangement of this board conflicts with the case. I was lucky with the VXL 
board. I'm not sure what would happen with CSA boards or ATonce, etc... I am currently 
working on a small PCB to move things around enough to fir the 040 card. I'm also 
working on a similar PCB to allow the use of an ICD Flicker Free Video 2 card which 
doesn't fit under the VXL030 or 040 card.


2:    Now, the tricky one. The standard PC baby power supply wanted to occupy the 
same space as my motherboard. The PSU was mounted horizontally, and the right side 
went right up against the video slot connector and surrounding components, bending 
the MB outward. So, I cut a square out of the back panel, surrounding the PSU 
mounting holes. I then spun the square 90 degrees, putting the PSU vertically on the left 
side of the case. (Figure 2) I then used some epoxy (Quicksteel brand, check your 
automotive outlets) to put the square back in, and used paperclips for a bit more 
strength. Still, I didn't think it would be strong enough to support the weight of the PSU, 
so I kept hacking. I got a dead baby PSU and threw out its circuit board. Now, just the 
back panel of it with the fan and power connectors are left, and they work quite well on 
the back of the case. I put the real PSU in the top of the case. (Figure 3) I drilled some 
holes in the top panel of the case, and matching holes in the PSU. I then epoxied some 
nuts inside the PSU to hold the mounting screws. The PSU was screwed inside the top, 
and the screw heads were filed down to let the case cover fit properly. Some salvaged 
power cables were put between my fake PSU and the real one, and the fan was 
connected to a spare hard drive power connector from the PSU. Now I had to hook the 
thing to the motherboard, so I cut the connector off the original 2000 PSU and shoved 
the wires into corresponding spots in the PSU's PC connectors. (Figure 4) Also, J300 
was switched to take the TICK clock from the vertical sync pulse instead of from the 
PSU because the PC PSU doesn't have this signal.


3:    Now that everything was out of the way, I had to make a way to mount the
motherboard. And, I had to have the expansion board brackets fit with the back panel 
brackets, anything else would be uncivilized. So, to make sure that this worked, I laid 
the MB in and put in a few cards. I screwed in the expansion brackets to make sure they 
fit properly. Then I marked on the mounting panel where the holes in the 2000 are and 
removed everything. I then drilled the holes in the panel. Now, to make it fit properly, the 
MB had to be lifted slightly to match the expansion brackets. So I put the screws 
through the panel, put a couple washers on and then the nut, so the screws are 
permanently mounted. The motherboard fits onto the screws, and nut are used to 
secure it in place. A related problem was that the top expansion bracket on the case 
was still in the way, so the side towards the MB was cut out and that spot was covered 
with a slice of metal from the drive bay and epoxy.


    At this stage, my ports were a bit unusable. They were up against the back of the
case, a relatively small problem. So I removed the connectors from the motherboard on 
the back, the keyboard, mouse and joysticks were left in place. The connectors were 
soldered to ribbon cable and reattached to the motherboard. (Figure 3 again) They were 
mounted to the nice Db cutouts on the back panel of the case, except for the video 
connector. It was put into an expansion bracket with spaces for both a 25Db and a 9Db. 
This way the standard video and flicker free video connectors were together. Extension 
cables were made for the keyboard, mouse and joystick. These are just strips of ribbon 
cable with connectors on each end, one at the back panel and one plugged into the 
corresponding connectors of the Amiga, at the front of the case. The keyboard 
connector is in the 3rd DB9, under the mouse and joystick connectors.The audio 
connectors were mounted in holes which were drilled under the 
mouse/joystick/keyboard connectors.(Figure 2)

    The motherboard was now mounted, and I had to install the floppies. The floppy
drives in my 2000 were taller (1.25 inches) than the PC standard (1 inch), so I used 
something else. I had a "Backup Buddy" drive, which is standard PC size, that wasn't a 
problem, but I wanted 2 drives. Originally I had an Amiga 500 in this case, and one of 
my A500 floppies was standard PC size, the rest were too tall, like the 2000's drives. It 
fit, it worked, but had no faceplate. My case had come with 2 dummy plates, the ones 
that cover an empty bay but are molded like the floppy. So I just cut out the holes in one 
of these dummy plates and epoxied an LED in it place. It works well, and is hard to tell 
from the real thing. Yes, it was a pain, but I am very picky about how my computer 
looks...

    Now, what can those 2 PC case buttons be used for? The turbo switch is used to
switch my VXL030 between default CPUs, 68000/030. I made my reset button perform 
the equivalent of ctrl-A-A. Since I had originally had my 500 in the case, I had an A500 
keyboard hacked into the shell of a dead A3000 keyboard. The reset line was present, 
using the fifth line of a standard XT keyboard extension cable. My 2000 keyboard flaked 
out, so I wanted to use the 500 keyboard, which has worked very well for me. I needed 
to reset off its signal, which works similarly to the reset button. So I compared the 
500/2000 service manuals, and the 500 signal goes to pin 5 of Gary with a 10K pullup 
resistor to +5V. The 2000 only uses 4 keyboard wires. So, I put in the resistor and wired 
my reset line from the unused 2000 keyboard pin to pin 5 of Gary. (I had planned ahead 
for this, making sure I put the 500 keyboard reset where it wouldn't conflict with big box 
machines.) It works very well, and I am typing this document on the 500 keyboard on 
my 2000T. The reset button is easily added here, connect one side of it to pin 5 of Gary 
and the other end to ground. Make sure you have the 10K pullup resistor to pin 5 also!! 
You now have a functional reset button. I'm not sure if this part would be usable on a 
3/4000...

    Now, I have a cool tower case, beige, with a door covering the drive bays. The
clock frequency display was set to 25 and 7, the speeds of my 030 and 68000. I have a 
very nice keyboard. But, there's this empty square thing in the case, where a company 
logo should be. It just looks weird with nothing there, so I made an Amiga logo for it. I 
scanned the Escom/AT Amiga logo and printed it on a 1 inch square. I laminated it and 
stuck it in the empty square.

    Now, remember those few spots on the back panel, where the square cutout is,
and the metal plate covers my hacked expansion bracket? That looked like crap. So, I 
sanded the epoxy down, smoothing it out. I removed the computer from the case. I 
painted the whole metal assembly with light gray Rust-oleum primer. This makes it look 
very nice, and protects the cut areas from corrosion. Nobody likes a rusty computer, 
right? Everything was put back together, and looks real nice.

    The case I have is available from a couple places (US, don't know about
overseas...) and is about US$125 each place as of 7/96.

      Jinco Computers         Case Depot
      1-800-253-2531          1-800-200-6118
      item# 780B/W            item# 572B/W
      www.jinco.com

    Have fun with this project, and let me know if you would like and more
information, have ideas I didn't think of, or have any comments. Keep flames to yourself. 
:) Incidentally, I also hacked a Logitec Mouseman for my system, but that's already 
available on aminet somewhere, look for a bus mouse hack...

    This document is Copyright 1996 by William W. Toner II. It may be freely 
distributed on the internet, BBSs, etc. If these files are to be included in a floppy PD 
collection, please do not charge any more than The cost of the media plus US$1. 
CD-ROM publishers (Fred Fish, aminet, etc) have my permission to include these files 
as long as the price of the CD does not exceed US$25. Any other distribution methods 
must contact me for permission. I can be reached at:

William W. Toner II        or           20 Kimball Drive
18 Arlington Drive   (until Nov. 1998)  Rochester, NY 14623
Warren, PA 16365
wwt5491@rit.edu  http://www.rit.edu/~wwt5491
or amigabill@hotmail.com

Please do not put me on any emailing lists, I boycott spammers so
don't waste your time...
