Short:    CDDA Audio Input for Amiga 3000
Author:   Bruce Braun
Uploader: audio@hotkey.net.au
Type:     hard/hack
Requires: A3000

The following mod should be read as **HACK**. I take no responsibility for
any damage that may occur from this modification. A good working knowledge
of soldering, and static sensitive devices is required for this hack.

Now that the disclaimer shit is taken care of. How many time have you wished
that you could have cd-audio inputs on your A3k without having to take up
an extra input on your stereo. Well put your mind at ease, cause in approx
20 minutes this could be you. The mod itself is straight-forward and easy to
accomplish, the most time consuming part would be stripping the machine down
to access the motherboard underneath the the expansion card side.

The first step would be to strip down the machine. Pull the top off, and remove
any expansion cards that you may have fitted. Now locate the Paula chip. (this
being the 8 bit sound chip that all Amiga's were fitted with) Above this
is a small 14pin DIL chip labelled U402. What needs to be done is to solder
two wires onto pins 9 and 13 of this chip. For explanation, U402 is the final
audio buffer before the audio outputs on the back of the machine. And pins
9 and 13 are just the inputs into this final amp. That done, just twist the two
wires together over the length and solder them onto two rca sockets (which can
be purchased at all electrical suppliers.) Now the rca sockets can be mounted
where ever looks good, I found that drilling a couple hole into one of the
backplanes of one of my expansion cards was the best option.

Now the assumption that is made is that you have the cd-rom in an external
case (scsi tower, etc) and the audio outputs are likewise connected up to the
back of case to another set of rca sockets.

This is a simple hack and no problems should arrise out of it. And also it should
also work for all Amiga models being that they were all shipped with the same
8bit Paula chip. So instead of soldering onto U402, then solder onto pins 30 and
31, (these being the left and right outputs from Paula). If you have any queries,
then take a look at the schematics included with this file. One is of Paula (U400)
and the other is of U402. However do not include any sort of dropping resistor like
what is shown on the attached schematics. One thing that may be prudent though
would be to include a blocking capacitor on each of the inputs of approx 24µF,
this is just to stop any stray dc voltages that may appear on the line due to
Murphy rearing her ugly head.

With this done, you should be able to now hear your cd audio through your
Amiga's audio output mixed nicely with the native audio output.


Bruce Braun
©1998
email:  audio@hotkey.net.au
www:    http://www.hotkey.net.au/~audio

