

                            ˛
                          ≤‹ﬂ                                 ‹  ‹‹˛
           ˛          ‹‹€ﬂﬂ                               ‹‹˛  €  €› ‹ﬂﬂ
     .ﬂ0ﬂ.  €∞ ‹‹‹€≤ﬂﬂﬂ ›                              ‹€ﬂ›      ﬂﬂ˙€ ﬂ‹‹ﬂ
         ‹‹≤€€€ﬂﬂ                                   ‹€ﬂ  ∞         ≤ €  ≤
    ˛‹€ﬂﬂﬂ› ≤€∞       ˛‹                           ‹€›                ﬂﬁ
            ∞€≤         €                          €≤
              ≤€∞        ﬁ€                        €€        european
              ∞€       ‹∞≤›                      ﬁ€ﬁ          demoscene
               €€≤  ‹‹≤ﬂ  €€         ‹‹‹‹         €›˘            meeting
             ‹ﬁ€€€€ﬂﬂ›    €›       ‹€ﬂ≤ ﬂﬂ€‹      €€            ‹‹˛
          ˛ﬂﬂ  €€       ﬁ€€›     ≤€  ﬁ    €€     ≤€        ‹‹€ﬂﬂ
              ›€€≤        €€      €›       ≤€     ﬁ€≤    ‹€ﬂ€€≤
               ﬁ€€›      ≤€      ≤€        €∞   ‹ €€        ≤€
               ≤€€       €€       ˛€€‹    €€€≤ ‹ﬂ ≤€       ∞€≤
              ﬁ€€≤      ≤€     ‹€ﬂ  ﬂﬂ€‹‹€ﬂﬂ ﬂﬂﬂ    ﬂ€‹     ‹€€€
              ≤€       €‹ ‹‹≤ﬂ ›                     ﬂﬂ€‹≤ﬂﬂ €€
             ∞€       ˛€€ﬂﬂ     ˘                        ›      €≤
             €∞                                                  €›
           ˛ﬂ                                                    ≤€
                                                                  ≤
                                                                   ˛
                           THE FRIENDSHIP OLYMPICS

                          OFFICIAL FINAL INVITATION

  1. OPENING WORDS

  Controlled Dreams and Relentless, in association with Crimson Jihad, with
  invaluable help from Liquid Sounds, Contract, ABC and Coma (C-64) members
  proudly present you the final invitation to FLaG '98 - European Demoscene
  Meeting.  This  textfile  contains  most  important information about the
  event.

  Some  crap  about  the  party  itself.  It  is  the  second  time FLaG is
  organized,  first it happened July 1996. Then it became the largest party
  ever in Hungary, and some of its records are still unmatched; for example
  it  was the only four-days long demoscene meeting ever in Eastern Europe,
  etc.  FLaG  '97  never  took  place,  we cancelled it, but now we resumed
  organizing work.

  2. WHEN & WHERE

  The  exact  date is and place is:

                          6th - 9th February 1998.
                  Hungary, Budapest, 1134 Tuzer utca 56/58.

  So  it is four days o'fun again. Hungarians, don't whine about school and
  worktime!  Take  a  look  at  the  timetable before not coming because of
  reasons  like "I gotta work on Mondays", etc. The compos will begin early
  in the evening on Saturday, and they will end at around 21:00!
  The  party  will be held in a large school building in Budapest, Hungary.
  Here  is  a brief guide to get there by the local public traffic. You can
  find  a  map  in  the  invitation intro and at the FLaG '98 homepage (its
  address is at the end of this text).

  First,  move  your  ass  to  Budapest. I guess most people will arrive by
  train.  There  is a metro stop at every railway station. If you arrive by
  plane,  catch a bus and that will take you to the metro. Get underground.
  Check  which  line  it  is:  M1  (yellow line), M2 (red line) or M3 (blue
  line).  It  is  easy to find out which line you are travelling, since the
  information  tables  on the red line are red, etc. You must take the blue
  line. All three lines are junctioned at the stop named 'Deak ter'. So get
  to  the  blue  line, and travel to the stop named 'Lehel ter'. Here climb
  upground,  and  take  a  ride with the tram number 14. (Only number 14 is
  available, so it won't be a hard guess.) You must travel 3 stops. Get off
  at the third one, and head left. There you'll see a large, blue building,
  with a big FLaG banner hanging on it. You have arrived.

  3. GENERAL INFORMATION

  First  of  all,  this is a TRULY ELITE party. It's main purpose is NOT to
  entertain  lame kids playing Quake all the days. This is for real sceners
  only!  We  won't  advertise it on TV, in newspapers, etc. just to attract
  lamers.  Our  goal  is not to reach the 10000000 visitor number, and even
  not  making  piles  of money this way. We don't expect more than just the
  best of the scene. The entry fee is relatively cheap:

                750 HUNGARIAN FORINTS = 4 USD or 5 DM approx.

  Not a big deal. This is all you need to pay, and nothing else.
  So  those  only willing to play during the entire party better stay home.
  But what will real cool guys get for their money?

  -  First  of  all,  the  usual stuff. We'll have a projector, large hi-fi
  equipment, and such. We'll have a buffet, operating round the hour. We'll
  try  to  build  and  keep a party network alive. With Internet, ofcoz. It
  will  use  OS/2  Warp  Connect;  thanks  go  to  OS/2  Team for making it
  possible. Another thanks fly to Matav for the ISDN.

  - CD-ROM writing service will also operate.

  -  There  will  be  some  professional  presentations. These will include
  "conventional"  ones,  when  a  guy comes, and tells about how kewl their
  products  are.  But  these  may  even  be interesting. Take a look at the
  timetable for details.

  - The first night - Friday - will be a so-called Coder-L Nite. This means
  we'll hold an open forum for coders where they can meet and discuss about
  engines,  rotators  and  such  crap. This idea came from TomCat / Abaddon
  (remember his 'Chrome' 4Ks), who'll also hold a professional presentation
  about  raytracing. Maybe even some software companies may pop up, looking
  for programmers to employ...

  -  We'll  keep  the  sleeping  area  guaranteedly silent and guaranteedly
  comfortable, thanks to the matrasses from the PE room.

  -  There  will  be  a  place  that  guaranteedly  will not be silent: the
  "rageroom"  for those arriving with a large audio. There they can turn on
  the afterburner for Prodigy! Ofcoz some moderation is needed after 22:00.

  - Every visitor will receive a free can of beer!

  -  The party is free for girls, although an entry ticket should be bought
  to vote.

  - And of course we'll hold the regular compos.

  4. THE COMPOS

      PC demo           PC 64K intro         PC-Amiga 4K intro
      Amiga demo        Amiga 40K intro      C-64 demo
      C-64 music        C-64 GFX             Pixel gfx
      Wild GFX          Raytrace             Wild compo
      Multichannel      4 channel            PSION compo
      PHuN compo        Graffiti compo

  Let's see the rules. Ain't much.

  PC DEMO
  8  megabytes.  It  mustn't  be  100%  animation,  but  shorter  anims are
  accepted.  It  must stop when pressing Esc. No writings on the hard disk.

  PC 64K INTRO
  64  kilobytes.  The intro must not contain played animation. It must stop
  when pressing Esc. Don't touch the hard disk.

  PC - AMIGA 4K INTRO
  4  kilobytes,  PC  and Amiga will compete in one category. The intro must
  not  contain  played  animation.  It  must  stop when pressing Esc. Don't
  touch the hard disk.

  AMIGA DEMO
  The  rules  are  the  same  like in the PC demo category.

  AMIGA 40K INTRO
  The  rules  are  the  same like in the PC 64K category, except that it is
  40K.

  C-64 DEMO
  Maximum  length:  4  disk  sides.  If  running  the  demo  requires  user
  interaction,  one  of  the  makers  must  be present at the compo machine
  during playing.

  C-64 MUSIC
  No  remixes, stolen or digitized tunes. This compo will be separated from
  the others.

  C-64 GFX
  We  only accept contributions in executable format. The contribs must not
  contain musics and/or visual effects like scroll, etc. Don't scan.

  PIXEL GFX
  Only 100% hand pixelled works! Photoshop, traces and scans will be kicked
  real bad. The limit is 640x480, 256 colors.

  WILD GFX
  Here  you can enter with any QUALITY picture, drawing, photo montage made
  using  Photoshop.  We'll  only  display  real  artful  pics! The limit is
  800x600x16M. (This is the projector's mode limit.)

  RAYTRACE
  Guess what. Limit: 800x600x16M. Forget stolen objects.

  WILD COMPO
  Maybe you already noticed the absence of the lamer compo. This is another
  wrong  door  to  knock  with  lamerdemos!  This category is for raytraced
  anims,  videoclips,  etc,  only  some lame Hungarians think it is another
  Firg-compo.  All three compo machines and a VHS VCR are available to play
  the  contributions,  plus  a special wildcompo machine, provided by Intel
  Hungary and Pixel Multimedia:
  Pentium-II 233 MHz, 64 MB RAM, Matrox Monster 3DFX, GUS PnP 16 MB.
  If you need any other hardware, you should provide it.

  MULTICHANNEL MUSIC
  Accepted  formats:  MOD,  IT, S3M, STM, XM, or anything else Cubic Player
  can  play.  We will play 10 musics. This compo will be separated from the
  others. No remixed, stolen or fully digitized tunes.

  4 CHANNEL MUSIC
  Same  to  the  multichannel compo, except for the number of channels. All
  modules will be played on PC.

  PSION COMPO
  Our  main  supporter  is PSION Hungary Ltd. You know, the guys with those
  cool  little  things,  called  palmtops,  featuring  a  RISC chip to make
  Internet  access  faster.  The task is to write a quality demo about this
  pocket  machine  or other PSION product. Just to avoid misunderstandings:
  THIS MUST BE A PC PROGRAM, NOT A PSION ONE. It is worth to compete, since
  the winner will receive a PSION machine worth of 150,000 forints (approx.
  800 USD or 1100 DM) from the hands of a PSION representative! Information
  about  PSION  products  -  like  pictures,  etc.  -  can  be found in the
  attachment  of  this  invitation  intro,  but you can also DL it from our
  homepage.  You  can  freely use any PSION product names and/or logos. The
  only  need  for  the  demo that it must support Sound Blaster and must be
  able  to  run from a Windows 95 DOS task. We said task, no need to run it
  in a window. It needn't be a realtime demo, it can even be an animation.

  GRAFFITI COMPO
  For  the  artists  of  the  spraycan. Due to the great interest shown, we
  changed  the rules. Any number of contestants may enter the compo, but we
  have  cans  only  for  the  first five entrant. Other entrants must bring
  their  own paints. Of course anyone may use his own cans, even beyond the
  given  ones, and you can also use your own spraycaps. We have enough wall
  for  everyone:  a  piece of rendered wall, approx. 4m x 5m size per skull
  will be given. The winner will be voted by the audience. We will show the
  scanned  photographs  of  each  work  on the projector during the compos.
  Contestants may enter the competiton as individuals or as a group.

  Entrants already signed up:

  Tyrant / Therapy^Resource
  Enok / Urinate^Chrome^Label Zero
  Blackdog / UiT
  Xtro / Contract

  PHUN COMPO
  Well,  all  we  can  say  that  it  won't be another one from that boring
  we-are-funny-haha  brand  of  so-called  fun  compos.  This  will be real
  313373 PHuN...

  The general rules for all compos:

  -  First  and foremost, the most important: we will disqualify nonserious
  entries. We are bored of lamerdemos.

  - One artist or group may only enter with one production per category.

  -  You  needn't  be present personally to enter a compo, but give us some
  way to send you the prize in case you win.

  - No compo entry fee.

  -  Controlled  Dreams  and  Relentless  will  not enter to any compo as a
  group, other organizers may not contribute as individual artists.

  -  If  we have any problem with your stuff, for example it doesn't run on
  the compo machine or so, we'll try to tell it to you. But we won't search
  the entire building for you, so it's better you don't to disappear before
  the compos. We will test all contributions.

  -  Disqualified entries will not be released after the compos. This gives
  the author(s) to release it some other party later.

  -  If  there is only one contribution in some category - or none at all -
  that  competition  will  be  cancelled.  The single entrant will be asked
  whether to release his work or not.

  5. THE COMPO MACHINES

  We  don't really agree with some fellow party organizers, who provide the
  latest  PC  equipment  available during the compos, just to tell they had
  such  cool  compo machines. We think a compo machine should be a computer
  like everyone use. So, our preferred configurations are:

  PC:
  Intel  Pentium  180,  32 MB RAM, Tseng ET-6000 2 MB, GUS Max 1 MB, MS-DOS
  6.22, XMS.

  AMIGA:
  A1200, Blizzard 1200/60, 16 MB FastRAM, 2 MB ChipRAM.

  C-64:
  C-64 2 (grey breadbox-type), Action Replay MK7, new SID, plain 1541-II.

  Don't  think  we can't get a P233MMX any time we want, but we don't want.
  The  Tseng  ET-6000  is a sure thing now, so prepare to use VESA 2.0. Our
  projector's  display  limit  is  800x600x16M  color. Warning, nonstandard
  resolutions  (eg.  350x480)  may  produce  weird  picture.  Please forget
  resolutions  above  800x600  in  the  art  compos,  we  will  not convert
  pictures.

  6. PRIZING

  Promising  anything  about  prizing  may end up in sucking bigtime, so we
  promise  nothing  - we won't give neither less nor more than at any other
  party.  This  means  hardware,  software  and maybe some cash, all around
  3-400,000  forints  worth,  and  -  as we told in the pre-invitation - no
  sofware-only prizes will be given. But we can promise one thing for sure:
  we  are  not  lamers,  and  won't  make  ourselves  ridiculous  by giving
  mousepads or Pascal handbooks...

  7. CONTRIBUTING AND VOTING

  Contributing  and voting are simple. You copy your product to 3.5" disks.
  Or  5.25"  ones, if you are a 64'er. Warning, we won't accept anything on
  hard  disks!  CD-ROM  disks,  audio and VHS cassettes are accepted in the
  wild compo only. Now you go to the entrance. There you grab a plastic bag
  and  an  entry  form. You fill out the form. There will be some questions
  about  the  title  and  the  category  of the contribution on it. Fill it
  precisely!!  And  readable!!  Then you insert the disks and the form into
  the  bag.  Only  one contribution per bag! Sorry if you need lotsa disks,
  but  this is the only way not to mix the stuff up. You close the bag, and
  insert it into the box standing nearby. You are done.
  Entering the graffiti compo requires finding Tomcat before the deadline.

  Voting  is  even  more simple. You will receive your voting form with the
  ticket.  It will be attached to the ticket, it must be torn off. You fill
  this during the compos, and insert into the voting box. Only one form per
  skull! We'll keep an eye on this.

  8. HOW TO BEHAVE

  We  don't  organize  a  party just to force rules on everyone. This means
  nothing  is forbidden that doesn't make any problems. Alcohol and smoking
  aren't  forbidden,  but  please, if your smoke bothers others, don't be a
  butt,  and  move  away. And don't mess with others drunken. If you vomit,
  you  will clean it up. That's all. Ah, btw. enjoying drugs is against the
  Hungarian laws. Breaking these rules will end up in breaking your face.
  Don't  organize  a  nonofficial  graffiti  compo for yourself! All caused
  damage will be subtracted from the prizes.
  You  should  keep  your eye on your stuff, because if anything disappears
  from  your  equipment,  that's  your problem. In a lawyerlike manner: The
  organizers  don't  take  any  responsibility  for  hardware, software and
  anything else brought to and/or used at the event.

  9. TIMETABLE

  This  is  the  planned timetable of FLaG '98, but this is not final! Some
  new  programmes  may  pop  up, times may change, etc. The final timetable
  will be announced at the party.

  6th Febrary, Friday

  16:00         Opening
  21:00         Coder-L Nite opens, lasts until you get bored
                (may even begin sooner)

  7th February, Saturday

  09:00         Borland presentation:
                 The future of coding: Delphi
  12:00         Intel presentation:
                 The next generation of CPUs: The Merced architecture
  14:00         PSION presentation:
                 The next generation of palmtop machines
  15:00         Multichannel compo deadline
                4 channel compo deadline
                C-64 music compo deadline
  16:00         IBM & OS/2 Team presentation:
                 Java VisualAge under OS/2
  20:00         Multichannel compo
                4 channel compo
                C-64 music compo
  21:00         Graffiti compo deadline
  22:00         Graffiti compo (will take place some 500 metres from the
                partyplace, so take a coat...)

  8th February, Sunday

  12:00         Silicon Graphics presentation:
                 Professional rendering
  14:00         313373 PHuN compo
  15:00         All compos deadline
  18:00         Compos start
  22:00         Approximate time of prizegiving

  9th February, Monday

  10:00         Closing
  12:00         Killing people still in the building
  13:00         Bagging up bodies
  14:00         The organizers leave
  15:00         You got locked in the empty building alone...


  10. THANKS TO OUR SUPPORTERS

          FLaG would never happen without the following companies:

                            4M Computerbonto Kft.
                            Borland Magyarorsz·g
                         Deutsche Messe AG Hannover
                          DUFA Paints Hungary Kft.
                            IBM Magyarorszag Kft.
                           Intel Magyarorszag Kft.
                                 Internetto
                                  Matav Rt.
                            Mikropo Computer Kft.
                            Pixel Multimedia Kft.
                           PSION Magyarorszag Kft.
                              Silicon Graphics
                                  OS/2 Team
                                  OS/2 News
                        Trans-Europe Management Kft.


  11. THANK YOU FOR HELPING US

  Some  guys  &  girliez  who  made  this  event possible, and without whom
  organizing FLaG would have been impossible:

                                Lord / KNG^CJ
                                  Lay / CJ
                                TomCat / ABD
                                  BLT / REL
                                    Atko
                                 Jennifer 8
                                     Mo

  12. CONTACT

  I  guess  you  already  have the final FLaG invitation, but if you need a
  spare one, call one of our bulletin boards:

  The Next Generation - CD WHQ:         (06-96) 414-576     Gyor
  SceNet BBS                            (06-1) 228-5921     Budapest
  Koala Land BBS                        (06-23) 354-776     Szazhalombatta

  Or hit the Internet:

  http://goliat.eik.bme.hu/~zotya             FLaG '98 official party page

  If you have any questions, write to Tomcat / Controlled Dreams:

  E-mail :   engineer@kempelen.inf.bme.hu
  IRC    :   Tomcat_CD                         #scene #coders #c-64 daytime
  Snail  :   Polg·r Tam·s
             1139 Budapest, Kart·cs utca 7.

  You needn't reserve neither a table, nor a ticket, we have both enough.

  Come all! We did serious work to make this event possible, and give you a
  really remarkable party.

@BEGIN_FILE_ID.DIZ
            OFFICIAL INVITATION
        (ENGLISH VERSION WITH MAP!)
              F L A G ' 9 8
        EUROPEAN DEMOSCENE MEETING
       - THE FRIENDSHIP OLYMPICS -
   PC - AMIGA - C64 PARTY FOR SCENERS!
        DATE:  6-9, FEBRUARY, 1998
       PLACE:   BUDAPEST / HUNGARY
@END_FILE_ID.DIZ                                     


