Amiga Arena Interview

*Please Introduce yourself for the Readers!

Yo, Readers! I'm Martin Blom, probably most known for the AHI sound
system.

*Since did you Start to Work with the Amiga?

I bought my first Amiga in 1989. In March, I beleive.

*Which Amiga Modell have you got?

Today, I have an A4000 with a 060/604e processor card. My first Amiga
was an Amiga 500.

*Which Amiga OS Version is used by you?

OS 3.5.

*Which Software Develope you?

AHI.

*Would you continue Develope for your Software?

When I began working on AHI, I studied computer science in Linköping,
Sweden and thus had loads of spare time. Today, I work at a small
software company in Linköping, have much less spare time and,
unfortunately, even less time to spend on personal software
development.

But I am committed to bringing a PPC accelerated version of AHI if it
is technically possible, unless somebody else steps in hand does it
before me. After that, it seems unlikely that I will keep enhancing
it.

*Get you enough Feedback and Registration for you Software?

Yes, I am most satisfied. In 1998, when I needed a PowerPC card to
develop on, the users and a Swedish company donated enough money to
cover the cost.

If I was to wish for anything else, it would be for help with the
development. AHI has been open source for one and a half year now, but
so far, very few developers have offered to help.

*Would you Develope your Software for the AmigaOne?

Nope.

*Would you change to the New Amiga?

Probably not, but who knows... Maybe we'll all run AmigaOS NG instead
of Windows in a couple of years. But I doubt it.

*When have you used your Amiga at last?

A couple of microseconds ago. The Amiga is still used for most of my
internet usage, mainly because it is the only computer I have at my
desk at home. The game and entertainment machines (a Win2k PC and a
C-64) are in the living room.

*Which was your last Soft/Hardware Product you buy?

I think it was Photogenics 4.

*Which Software used you on you Amiga?

The number one application I use it actually Napsaterm, which I use to
log in on a system where I read mail. The second most used application
is AWeb. Third place is probably shared by Directory Opus, CED, make
and gcc...

*Which Soft/Hardware would you buy in the Future?

I need a tower so I can fit a bigger fan on the 604e (it overheats)
while still keeping the CD-ROM. As for software, I don't
know... MorphOS, I guess. Future updates to classic AmigaOS, if there
will ever be any.

*Do you belive on the Amiga comeback?

No, I can't say I do.

Thank you for your Answer!


(c) Amiga Arena 2000

