
            CD32 Disk Drive Adapter Questions and Answers
            ---------------------------------------------


Q: Where do I get the parts to make the CD32 Disk Drive Adapter?

A:
  Most of the parts required should be available from your local
  electronics supplier. If you have trouble getting a 23 pin
  connector for the external drive, buy a 25 pin one and cut the
  end off it.



Q: Do I have to use your PCB layout?

A: No. My prototype board was done on Veroboard with hand-wired
   connections and it worked perfectly. Do make sure to use
   heavy ground and +5 volt connections, and don't forget the
   decoupling capacitors!



Q: How many disk drives can I use at once?

A: I recommend using only one drive, because the CD32 power
   supply can't provide much current. The interface will support
   1 internal and 3 external drives, if there's enough power to
   run them.



Q: I have an IBM compatible 3.5" disk drive, can I use it
   with this project?

A: Most PeeCee drives can be used, but you may have to modify them
   slightly. PeeCee drives use pin 34 as 'Disk Change' instead of
   'Ready'. ( Standards. Who needs 'em? Not IBM! )

  The Amiga requires 'Standard Ready' (SR or RDY) on pin 34, and
  'Disk Change' (DC) on  pin 2. Some drives have jumpers to set
  the pin functions, others have links on the circuit board. For
  example:- on the Chinon FZ-357 you put a link on RDY to get 'Ready'
  onto pin 34, and solder across a pad on the board to connect 'Disk
  change' to pin 2. You could also try simply swapping the cable
  connections going to pin 2 and pin 34.

   If your drive doesn't seem to have a 'Ready' signal available, just
  wire up the 'Disk Change' and forget about 'Ready'. Most Amiga
  software doesn't need it.

  Even though PeeCee drives are High Density, they will still be able
  to work with the Amiga 880K format. You can even use HD disks, which
  are now cheaper than Double Density disks! ( Of course you won't
  magically get 1.76MB, that would require a special Amiga HD drive ).


Q: I don't think I am competent to make up the circuit, can I send
  you my CD32 and pay you to install it for me?

A: Sorry, but I have enough to do already. You could try asking a
  local technician or electronics hobbyist to do it for you.



Q: Some titles don't work since I added the interface, why is that?

A: The disk drive uses a bit of memory because it is logged on as
  a DOS device. This could be enough to stop some programs from
  functioning correctly. To fix this, disconnect your drive when
  using that title. If you have an internal drive you could try
  putting a switch between pin 7 of U1 and pin 8 of U7.



Q: Some games won't load from the disk drive. Why is that?

A: The game may be using INDEX SYNC to read tracks. This is NOT
   supported on this interface! It could also be that the game
   is simply not compatible with a CD32.



Q: How did you generate that cool PCB layout?

A: With Deluxe Paint of course. By working at a resolution of one
  pixel equals 1/150th of an inch, a 1/10th inch spacing corresponds
  to 15 pixels. To get a good life-size printout from a laser printer,
  print the picture with a resolution of 150 dpi, and smoothing ON.



Q: I installed the circuit according to your instructions and my
  CD32 blew up. Will you pay for the damage?

A: NO! I have installed 5 of these interfaces and not one CD32 was
   damaged. So you had better check your installation. Do you think
   there's a fatal error in my circuit? Then don't build it!




